
PROCEEDINGS
The Academy of Natural Sciences
PHILADELPHIA
VOLUME LXXIV
1922
philadelphia:
 The Academy of Natural Sciences
1923
/
PUBLICATION COMMITTEE
1 1 i:\ky Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D.,
Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox,
Milton J. Greenman, M.D.
The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., ex-officio.
EDITOR: William J. Fox.
k
CONTENTS
For Announcements, etc., see General Index.
PAGE
Baker, H. Burrington. Notes on the Radula of the
Helicinidae. Published August 8, 1922 29
Berry, S. Stillman. Notes on the Mollusks of the Colorado
Desert -I. Published August 18, 1922 69
Fowler, Henry W. Records of Fishes for the Southern and
Eastern United States. Published July 28, 1922 1
Gordon, Samuel G. Keeleyite, a New Sulfantimonite from
Oruro, Bolivia. Published October 14, 1922 101
Crystallographic Notes on Glaucochroite, Willemite,
 Celestite, and Calcite, from Franklin. New Jersey.
Published October 14, 1922 105
Crystallographic Notes on Wavellite from Bolivia,
 Pennsylvania, Arkansas, and Bohemia. Published
 October 14, 1922 113
Hebard, Morgan. Studies in Malayan, Melanesian, and
 Australian Tettigoniidae (Orthoptera). Published De-
 cember iq, 1922 121
Abstracts of the Minutes of the Proceedings 301
/ ? / 7f
OF THE
ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES
RECORDS OF FISHES FOR THE EASTERN AND SOUTHERN
UNITED STATES.
By Henry W. Fowler.
The present paper is a report on the collections obtained for the
 Academy, chiefly during 1921. The materials and notes for the
 Middle Atlantic States are given first. They contain some inter-
 esting and unusual items of more local distribution. It is, however,
 chiefly in the streams of the Southern Alleghanies that the greater
 results were gathered. These were largely from collections made
 by the writer with Mr. Edwin Fowler, for the Fowler-Academy
 Expedition of October 1921. Eight rare or little-known species
 were rediscovered. The American Museum of Natural History
 in New York City, through Mr. John T. Nichols, very kindly
 submitted the collections made in Virginia and North Carolina by
 Mr. E. R. Dunn. As they contain two very interesting species, they
 are noted accordingly. A duplicate set of specimens had been
 generously donated to the Academy for the services rendered in the
 study of this material. Ten figures, representing the rare species
 hitherto unfigured, are given.
New York.
During the summer Mr. George W. Goudy sent the following
 fishes from Indian Lake in the Adirondacks.
(1)
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
tostomus emu an rsonnii (Lacepede). The largest of four males,
 is 200 mm. long. Scales (32 in lateral line to caudal base and 4 more
 on latter. The lower half of the caudal and all the anal rays tuber-
 culate. This evidently represents the nominal C.utawana Mather,
 a dwarfed form from the Adirondack^ said to reach less than 130
 mm. in length.
I have found a very wide range in the maturity of this species,
 in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Examples when but 75 mm. long
 were found with perfectly developed roe and milt, similar to
 examples 600 mm. The fully adorned male shows the pearl organs
 on the upper part of the body till level with the axils of the paired
 fins, and the entire upper surface of the head minutely tuberculated.
 The dorsal rays, at least anteriorly and basally, lower caudal lobe
 with its rays, anal rays and inner or upper surfaces of pectoral and
 ventral all with series of tubercles. On pectoral and ventral
 tubercles usually a little weaker than elsewhere. The tuberculated
 males most always have the lower surface of the caudal peduncle
 rough. I have examined males only 100 mm. with tuberculate anals,
 also lower caudal lobe and under surface of caudal peduncle rough.
 Other males 500 mm. were less ornate. Some males show the head
 more or less tuberculate over parts of its surface.
Esox lucius Linne\ Two heads sent September 29, the larger from
 a seven pound fish 792 mm. long. The smaller was nearly two
 pounds and is of interest in showing a pair of bony spines, splint-
 like, covered with epidermis and projecting from the top of the head.
 According to Mr. Goudy during several months of the year, or in
 the summer, one seldom finds any remains of food in the stomach,
 excepl green slime.
Pomotis gibbosus (Linn6). Small and dark.
I'i mi flavescens (Mitchil ). Several.
New Jersey.
( !ollections were made in Bear Brook, a tributary of the Millstone
 River east of Princeton Junction, on May 28 and June 10; in the
 Shabboconk Creek, near Bella Vista, June 21, and in September,
 with Mr. Edwin Fowler. Mr. Wharton Huber made a collection
 of marine fishes at Corson's Inlet, September 15 to 25.
Carcharias taurus Rafinesque. Mr. H. Walker Hand reports
 eighl at Cape May April 21. They were 1220 to 2440 mm. long,
 and were sold as "gray-fish" at New York for five cents a pound.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3
Alopias vulpinus (Bonnaterre). Mr. Henry S. Drinker reports
 one taken late in 1920, about 2745 mm. long, at Beach Haven.
Cetorhinus maximus (Gunner). Mr. Drinker reports one 4575
 mm. long at Beach Haven, May 26, caught in the nets of the St.
 Albans fish company. Fishermen at Sea Side Park also told us of
 one brought in there, about 5185 mm., early in August 1920. They
 also gave the following interesting items for the same season:
Eulamia milberti (Le Sueur). Several adults 2440 to 3050 mm.
Sphyrna zygaena (Linne). Very abundant though all small,
 largest 1525 mm. Many taken at different lifts of the pound
 during the entire season.
Squatina dumeril Le Sueur. A few in the pounds, though no
 actual dates given.
Torpedo nobiliana Bonaparte. An example 610 mm. long taken
 during the summer.
Mustelus canis (Mitchill). Prof. Charles La Wall reported one
 in July 1921, at Longport. During the summer he also found: Raja
 eglanteria Lacepede, several; Cynoscion regalis (Schneider), large
 ones in Great Egg Harbor Bay; Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider);
 Tautoga onitis (Linne); Paralichthys dentatus (Linne).
Mr. Huber found M. canis common at Corsons Inlet, with about a
 dozen examples of Sphyrna zygaena.
At Beach Arlington in late August, Mr. G. MacReynolds found
 if frequent ; also : Raja eglanteria, Anguilla rostrata, Scomber scombrus,
 Pomatomus saltatrix, Centropristis striatus, Stenotomus chrysops,
 Cynoscion regalis, Micropogon undulatus and Paralichthys de?itatus.
Squatina dumeril Le Sueur.. Mr. Drinker reports one August 13,
 1920, about 1195 mm. long. The same season he also found a young
 example of Squalus acanthias Linne early in June, and an adult
 Megalops atlanticus Valenciennes, 915 mm. long, late in June.
Notropis bijrenatus (Cope). Bella Vista.
Notropis chalybaeus (Cope). Bear Brook and Millstone River.
Catostomus commersonnii (Lacepede). Bella Vista.
Erimyzon sucetta oblongus (Mitchill). Bear Brook. Mr. L. M.
 Dorsey reports it from Hammonton, in Atlantic County, July 22.
 He also found Rhinichthys atronasus abundant in small brooks at
 Blackwood, August 10.
Esox americanus (Gmelin). Bear Brook. Mr. W. T. Innes
 reports it from May's Landing, May 1, with Ameiurus natalis,
 Aphredoderus sayanus, Mesogonistius chaetodon, and Enneacanthus
 gloriosus.
4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Umbra pygmaea (DeKay). Bear Brook.
Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). Corson's Inlet, in the surf.
 Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus very common and large, on the
 meadows. Mr. Huber also secured a few Anchovia mitchilli in
 the surf, and Anguilla rostrata noted large and very abundant.
Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). Bella Vista.
( 'yprinodon variegatus Lacepede. One from the gullet of a Hooded
 Merganser killed at Barnegat November 26, 1921. I also examined
 a mossbunker (Brevoortia tynuuins) taken from a Red-throated
 Loon, shot at Salem, November 24? The loon was said to have had
 two mossbunkers inside, the one I examined measuring 90 mm.
Syngnathus fuscus Storer. Common in the surf at Corson's Inlet.
Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill). Corson's Inlet, common in
 the surf with the next.
Mugil curema Valenciennes.
Tli a n huh thynnus (Linne). Mr. Drinker reports it common 25
 miles off Barnegat, during the summer, examples of 12 to 50 pounds,
 and large ones occasional. Other notes he sends from Beach Haven
 are as follows:
Sphyrna zygaena (Linne). Two small ones.
Megalops atlanticus Valenciennes. Two in the pounds.
Euthynnus alleteratus (Rafinesque). Common off shore, also the
 nexi .
Sarda sarda (Bloch).
Pomatomus saltatrix (Linne). Common and runs to 13 pounds
 off shore.
Coryphaena hippurus Linne. Small one August 25.
Cynoscion regalis (Schneider). Common in Barnegat Bay with
the IMXt t\VO.
Pogonias cromis (Linne).
Paralichthys dentatus (Linne).
Trachinotus enrol in us ^ Linne). Common in the surf at Corson's
 Inlet. An example of Strongylura marina about a foot long also
 reported from this locality, besides several of Seriola zonata.
Pomatomus saltatrix (Linne). Two young in the surf at Corson's
 Inlei. Frequent ;d)out the mouth of the Inlet, and large ones at sea.
Mesogonistius chaetodon (Baird). Bear Brook.
Lepomis auritus (Linne). Bear Brook.
Pomotis gibbosus (Linne). Millstone River and Bella Vista.
Bairdiella chrysura (Lacepede). Young in the surf at Corson's
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5
Inlet. Mr. Huber also reported a few Roccus lineatus, frequent
 and fairly large Centropristis striatus, few Stenotomus chrysops,
 large Cynoscion regalis common, and four Cynoscion nebulosus on
 September 23. In July Mr. J. A. G. Rehn reported Centropristis
 striatus, Cynoscion regalis, Paralichthys dentatus and Opsanus tau in
 Barnegat Bay at Beach Haven. During late September Mr. D.
 McCadden found Centropristis striatus, Orthopristis chrysopterus,
 Cynoscion regalis, Leiostomus xanthurus, Pogonias cromis said Paral-
 ichthys dentatus at Ocean City.
Menticirrhus saxatilis (Schneider). Young common in the surf
 at Corson's Inlet. Mr. Huber reports at this place an example of
 Sciaenops ocellatus of 36 pounds and another of 52 pounds; a few
 Leiostomus xanthurus, Micropogon undulatus common and large,
 also Tautoga onitis, an example of Chiloniycterus schoepfi about
 253 mm. long and many large Paralichthys dentatus.
Dioclon hystrix (Linne). August 24, 1921, Mr. R. P. Schriver Jr.,
 reported an example captured at this place which he skinned out
 and sent later. The skin now measures 320 mm. Color when fresh
 blackish-slate passing through slate color to gray on upper parts of
 side. Back with numerous close-set dark or blackish spots. Fins
 all more or less dusky terminally, with obscure blackish spots,
 most distinct on caudal and only few about pectoral axil. Bases
 of pectoral and ventral pale. Lower surface of head and trunk
 white, though narrow slate-gray band crosses throat. Sides of
 head slate-gray. But a single small example ever obtained pre-
 viously, and that at Atlantic City many years ago.
Mola mola (Linne). An example, said to have weighed 380 pounds
 and measured 1423 mm. was captured off McCray's Shoal, about
 four miles off Cape May, August 12.
Phycis regius (Walbaum). Mr. W. T. Innes secured two young
 at Corson's Inlet, with a young example of Pomolobus pseudohar-
 en gus.
Dr. R. 0. Van Deusen has kindly sent more or less complete
 notes on the fishes observed by him at Atlantic City during the
 season of 1921, of which the following resume appears noteworthy:
 Carcharias iaurus, 8 to 10 during June and July and about 20 during
 the season; Mustelus canis, common all summer; Eulamia milberti,
 two young in August; Sphyrna zygaena, 5 or 6 small ones in one
 haul in October; Squalus acanthi as, common in October and Nov-
6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
ember; Squatina dumeril, one 915 mm. long June 30, and adult in
 late October; Raja eglanteria, common; Dasyatis say, few at
 intervals during August, some young; Rhinoptera bonasus, adult in
 [ate September; Acipenser sturio, 25 in early May; Pomolobus
 stivalis, small numbers in early summer; AJosa sapidissima,
 1 1 during < October 28 and 29; Opisthonema oglinum, 2 in late August;
 /; . qortia tyrannus, common; Anchovia mitchilli, 2 in July; Anguilla
 rostrata, few in spring and common in fall; Conger conger, 8 in No-
 vember; Syngnathus fuscus, 15 or 20 off the wreck in late August;
 Hippocampus hudsonius, 8 from July to middle of October; Strong-
 ylura marina, 300 or more in September around the nets; Mugil
 at rana, 15 in mid October; Trichiurus lepturus, 1 in the spring;
 Seriola zonata, 8 in October; Caranx crysos, 10 from August to
 October; Vomer setapinnis, young very abundant about 35 mm.
 long in September, and adults irregular through summer; Tra-
 chinotus carolinus, 400 young in September and October; Poma-
 tomus saltatrix, September and October, several full-grown;
 Poronotus tri acanthus, common; Palinurichthys perciformis,
 seven during September and October; Roccus lineatus, 4 or 5 large
 ones in spring and a few in the fall; Morone americana, common in
 fall ; Centropristis striatus, 7 taken irregularly and common at the
 wreck; Lobotes surinamensis, adult June 8 of about 6 pounds
 weight; Orthopristis chrysopterus, 6 at intervals during summer;
 Stenotomus chrysops, abundant at the wreck; Lagodon rhomboides,
 common in September and October but rather small; Cynoscion
 regalis, common, C. nebulosus, 5 in October; Bairdiella chrysura,
 frequentlj' irregular in summer; Sciaenops ocellatus. few large ones
 and 6 young; Leiostomus xanthurus, common; Micropogan undulatus
 common in spring and fall; Menticirrhit'S saxatilis, common;
 Pogonias cromis, common and all adults; Tautogolabrus adspersus,
 few; Tautoga onitis, common, especially in fall; Chaetodipterus
 Jaber, 2 adults in September; Chaetodon ocellatus, one about 75 mm.
 long October 18; Pomacanthus arcuatus, young example October 18;
 Hal isles carolinensis, adult on October 1; Stephanolepis hispidus;
 2 in early September; Alutera schoepfii, small example in August,
 Spheroides maculatus, common; Chilomycterus schoepfi, common;
 Prionotus carolinus, few; P. evolans strigatus, few; Myoxocephalus
 octodecimspinosus, common in November; Cyclopterus lumpus,
 mil' aboul 75 mm. long in June; Leptecheneis naucrates, 6 in Sep-
 tember; Lophopsetta maculata, common; Paralichthys dentatus,
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7
common; Pseudopleuronectes americanus, common; Achirus fascia-
 tus, few irregularly; Astroscopus guttatus, one in September; Opsa-
 nus tauirequent in fall; Pollachius virens, 1 on October 10;Microgadus
 tomcod, common in late October and during November; Gadus
 callarias, one July 4 and frequent in November; Phycis regius, 4
 in October; P. chuss, common in fall; Merluccius bilinearis, spring
 and late fall, Lophius piscatorius, common.
Delaware.
Mr. W. J. Fox reported a few species from Bowers Beach, July
 30 and 31. Dr. Thomas Barbour gave me a list of eight species he
 met with off Ship John Light, August 19. With Messrs. Innes and
 Dorsey I visited Wyoming Pond on August 20. This is formed
 simply as a wide pond about a mile long, by the dam on the trib-
 utary of Jones Creek called Wyoming Creek. The water is still
 and very hard, the banks mostly of sand, shallow and sloping.
 Along each bank we found wide growths of aquatic vegetation,
 often as great mats of Ceratophyllum. In the more sheltered
 small coves the water was often covered with a mantle of green
 algae, duckweed, etc. Mr. G. MacReynolds sent some notes on
 food fishes he captured at Delaware City and St. Georges in 1905,
 interesting in comparison with present conditions.
Carcharias taurus Rafmesque. About a dozen at Bowers Beach.
Eulamia milberti (Muller and Henle). Small example at Ship
 John.
Sphyrna zygaena (Linne). Small one at Bowers Beach.
Raja erinacea Mitchill. One at Bowers Beach.
Dasyatis say (Le Sueur). One at Ship John.
Ameiurus catus (Linne). Common at Delaware City and St.
 Georges, reaching about 300 mm. At Wyoming Pond Ameiurus
 nebulosus, Anguilla rostrata and Perca flavesce?is were reported
 abundant. Morone americana was said to have been introduced
 during the past few years, prior to which none were seen for twenty
 years.
Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). Abundant, all small, in Wyoming
 Pond.
Erimyzon sucetta oblojigus (Mitchill). Young very common
 in Wyoming Pond.
Esox americanus (Gmelin). One in Wyoming Pond.
Esox tridecemlineatus Mitchill. Abundant in Wyoming Pond,
8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Delaware City and St. Georges. Mr. MacReynolds found the
 largesl aboui 660 mm.
ndulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). Common at
 Delaware City and St. Georges.
Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). Very abundant, the young
 everywhere in vegetation at Wyoming Pond.
Lepomis auritus (Linne). Several adults at Wyoming Pond.
Pomotis gibbosus (Linne). Abundant, many adults about usual
 color, Wyoming Pond. St. Georges and Delaware City.
Micropterus salmoides (Lacepede). Common in Wyoming Pond,
 none over a foot in length. St. Georges.
Perca flavescens (Mitchill). Very abundant at St. Georges and
 Delaware City, some two pounds in weight.
Centropristis striatus (Linne). One at Ship John.
qoscion regalis (Schneider). Bowers Beach and Ship John.
luiinlivUa chrijsurn (Lacepede). Ship John.
Leiostomus xanthurus Lacepede. Ship John.
Micropogan undulatus (Linne). Bowers Beach and Ship John.
Menticirrhus americanus (Linne). The same date last year Dr.
 Barbour says all the species secured this year were also found,
 but with the addition of the present one.
Opsanus tau (Linne). Adult at Bowers Beach and few at Ship
Maryland.
During mid September Mr. H. L. Mather found a few fishes in
 the Little Bohemia Creek, in Cecil County.
Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur).
Abramis crysoleuca-s (Mitchill).
Notropis hudsonius amarus (Girard).
Anguilla rostrata (Le Sueur).
Pomotis gibbosus (Linne).
Perca flavescens (Mitchill).
Worom americana (Gmelin).
Leiostomus xanthurus Lacepede. Small example.
Gobiosoma bosc (Lacepede). November 26, Mr. R. M.Abbott
 secured an example of this and the following in the Rhodes River,
 near Mayo, Anne Arundel County. Both were found in empty
 oysters shells.
Gobiesox strumosus ( !ope.
1922] natural sciences of philadelphia. 9
Virginia.
(1) Mr. Dunn's collection from the head of the James River at
 Midway Mills in Nelson County, made in 1917 is the most im-
 portant.
Ictalurus punctatus (Rafinesque). One 275 mm.
Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). Small one.
Chrosomus oreas Cope. Abundant.
Hybognathus nuchalis Agassiz. Eight, largest 88 mm.
Semotilus bullaris (Rafinesque). Common. Largest 168 mm.
Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). Two 3'oung.
Leuciscus vandoisulus Valenciennes. Thirty-three, adult with
 red sides. Whole upper surface of head with fine though sharp
 and rather sparse tubercles, each supraoccipital row distinct,
 though no tubercles on side of head below eyes.
Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). Three of medium size.
Notropis hudsofiius (Clinton). Nineteen, largest 58 mm.
Notropis cerasinus (Cope). Very common, largest 115 mm.
Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). Five, largest 47 mm.
Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). Seventeen.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Common, largest 132 mm.
Catostomus commersonnii (Lacepede). Six small ones.
Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur. Four; of two larger ones one
 216 mm.
Catostomus rhothoecus (Thoburn) Jordan and Evermann. Bull.
 U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, vol. 1,1896. p.181. "Some point in eastern
 Tennessee or southwestern Virginia, thought to be from French
 Broad River at Wolf Creek, Tennessee."
Head 4f to 4f ; depth 4| to 4|; D. in, 9,i; A, in. 6,i; scales
 43 or 44 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 7 scales
 above 1. 1., 6 below; predorsal scales 17 or 18; snout 2 to 2f in
 head; eye 3| to 4f; interorbital 2\ to 2f, moderately convex.
 Snout protruding beyond mouth. Width of mouth nearly \ of
 head. Lips with moderate plicae, lower with well marked median
 division. Dorsal inserted much nearer snout tip than caudal
 base. Anal depressed, reaches little beyond caudal base, little
 shorter in young. Caudal forked. Pectoral much longer than
 head, nearly reaches opposite dorsal origin. Ventral little shorter
 than head.
Color in alcohol dusky-olive generally on back. Narrow blackish
 lateral band from snout below eye to caudal base, its upper boun-
 dary obscured by dark color of back and lower contrasted with
 bright white of entire lower surface. Within lateral band six
10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
slightly deeper lateral blotches on trunk. In young these blotches
 obsolete. Caudal base brown. Iris brassy. Lips whitish, like
 under surface of head. Fins pale, dorsal and caudal slightly
 darker than others. Here described from 46 specimens, 48 to 120
 mm. long.
This species is only known from six examples previously, with
 unknown locality. The reference to its original description in
 the Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum for 1894 is erroneous,
 as I find no mention of it either in the volume for that year or those
 previously. The rediscovery of the species is therefore of some
 interest. Its appearance somewhat suggests Catostomus nigricans,
 though its greatly darker coloration above and greatly contrasted
 white lower regions, very large lower fins, flat or slightly convex
 interorbital, etc., will serve at once to distinguish it.
Anguilla rostrata (Le Sueur). One adult.
Lepomis auritus (Linne). One.
Micropterus dolomieu (Lacepede). Two young.
Hadropterus peltatus (Cope). One example. Compared with
 Pennsylvania examples it shows a more pointed snout.
Boleosoma nigrum effulgens (Girard). In searching for some
 clue for the distinction of Etheostoma olmstedi Storer from Etheo-
 stoma nigrum Rafinesque I examined the scales of both to test how
 far the contentions of' Prof. Cockerell 1 would hold. Evidently his
 materials were limited or the conclusions very hurriedly set forth.
 \- a fact I have found specimens, usually young or half grown,
 which in every way agree with his figure 16 of Boleosoma nigrum,
 but which are really Boleosoma olmstedi. The apical teeth of the
 scale, when free from the marginal membrane, is not always in-
 dicated in scales from Boleosoma nigrum. Such is frequently the
 case in Boleosoma olmstedi at all ages. The arrangement of the
 subapical elements below the apical denticles is also very variable
 and whether transversely elongated or subtriangular apparently
 largely a mutter of age, certainly a condition of great variation.
Etheostoma longimanus Jordan, and Etheostoma podostemone
 Jordan and Jenkins, are both to be distinguished from Boleosoma
 nigrum Rafinesque, according to Jordan, and Evermann, by their
 much longer pectorals. Now the series of 46 examples before me
 from Midway Mills shows the pectoral in half the series variably
 longer than the head and in the other half equally shorter. I have
1 Bull. Bur. Fisher., 32, 1912 (1913). p. 157.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11
found in New Jersey and Pennsylvania examples of Boleosoma
 olmstedi with pectorals equally as long as the Virginian, and the
 variation present both in young and adult. I have seen breeding
 males of Boleosoma nigrum inky or entirely black. Of the numerous
 males of Boleosoma olmstedi the body or trunk never becomes
 black, usually with some brown or olive, or at least noticeably
 pale in contrast Moreover I have never seen a breeding male of
 Boleosoma nigrum much over 63 mm., while the male of Boleosoma
 olmstedi frequently reaches 25 mm. more.
My Virginia specimens all agree at least with Arlina effulgens
 ( irard, which appears to be the southern representative. It
 approaches Boleosoma nigrum perhaps more closely than Boleoso?na
 olmstedi, at least in its smaller size.
Poecilichthys flabellaris (Rafinesque). Two.
(2) My first collecting in Virginia was in a tributary of the
 Dan River west of Danville, Roanoke basin in Pittsylvania County,
 October 21, 1921. This stream is very clear flowing over a sandy
 and gravelly bottom, and an excellent place to use a minnow seine.
 In most places it was bare of obstructions and snags, and had many
 pools of moderate depth. The fish were abundant mostly about
 the little eddies and backwater pools, especially along the bends of
 the stream. One deep stagnant pool, with simply a gravel bottom,
 yielded a great lot of fish, as here they had evidently been en-
 trapped during high water.
Chrosomus oreas Cope. Frequent.
Notropis procne (Cope). Five.
Notropis ivhipplii analostanus (Girard). Series of 135, many
 pale and none with the blue lateral band of Notropis niveus. One
 example distorted with sigmoid pattern to the haemal region of
 vertebral column vertically.
Notropis cerasinus (Cope). Very abundant.
Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). Very common and
 variable.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Abundant and all very
 young.
Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur. Young.
Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). One young.
Lepomis auritus (Linn6). Young.
Boleosoma nigrum (Rafinesque). One.
12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
PoecilicMhys flabellaris (Rafinesque). Two small examples.
 Both have seven dark saddles down middle of back.
(3) Tli<' same day we visited Falls Creek, also a tributary of
 the I )an River just east of Danville. It is very similar to the above.
 Fish life was also very abundant, and many large schools were
 found in the deeper pools. I am indebted to Mr. W. C. Hilderman,
 of Danville, for much assistance while collecting in Virginia.
Chrosomus oreas Cope. Common.
Notropis procne (Cope). Few.
\ otropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). Very common, variable
 ( >ne adult with some white pigment in its fins.
Notropis cerasinus (Cope). Head 3| to 3| depth 4 to 4|; D.
 in, 7, i: A. in, 8, i; scales 38 in lateral line to caudal base and 2
c on latter; <> or 7 scales above 1. 1., 4 or 5 below; 18 to 20 pre-
dorsal scales: snout 3 to 4 in head; eye 2\ to 3f ; maxillary 3;
 interorbital 3 to Z\. Body deep, well compressed. Head compress-
 ed. Muzzle conic, length f to f its width. Eye moderate, less
 than snout. Mouth inclined, moderate, lower jaw included. Max-
 illary to hind nostril. Interorbital convex. Teeth 2, 4  4, 2. hook-
 ed, with strong grinding surfaces. Scales very narrowly imbricated
 along side- especially in costal region, small, crowded and well
 exposed on predorsal, breast and belly. Scales with 12 to 17 apical
 radiating prominent striae, circuli coarse. Upper surface and side
 of head above with fine sharp and rather scattered tubercles, row
 of larger close set ones around upper jaw edge, none on mandible,
 though others extended up on predorsal medianly.
Color in alcohol with black or dusky markings on side very
 variable, usually as two or three rather large clusters. All fins
 with more or less orange-reel medianly, especially brilliant on anal
 and paired fins. Sides flushed with crimson.
Very abundant, in large schools in the deeper places. Though a
common species it is little known. The fully ornate males at this
late season are very interesting. Readily distinguished from
Votropis cornutus by the dark lateral blotches and nearly entirely
red fins.
Notropis coccogevis (Cope). Seven, largest 78 mm. Sometimes
 mandible not protruding beyond upper jaw.
Notropis ariommus (Cope). Head 3f; depth 5; D. in, 7; A. in,
ile- :; , .i in lateral line and to caudal base, 2 more on latter;
32 tubular scales in 1. 1.; 6 scales above 1. 1., 5 below; predorsal
scales is; snoul 31 in head; eye 2f; maxillary 3; interorbital
Body and head well compressed. Snout much less than
width. Eye greatly larger than snout, high.
Maxillary extends little beyond eve front. No barbel. Mandible
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13
slightly protrudes. Scales all broadly exposed, crowded along
 dark median predorsal line. Lateral line incomplete, though
 reaches caudal peduncle. Dorsal inserted slightly behind ventral
 origin. Back pale olive, scale edges dusted dusky. Underlaid
 leaden band from eye to caudal base, more intensified blackish
 dots along caudal peduncle side and at caudal base, though not
 forming well-defined black caudal spot. Lower parts and iris
 silvery- white. Fins pale. Length 45 mm.
No previous notice of the occurence of this species east of the
Alleghenies has been given.
Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). Very common. Several
 males with snout and dorsal fins orange-red.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Common, though all small.
North Carolina.
The fishes examined from this State were all obtained by Mr.
 Dunn in 1917, in a small tributary of the French Broad River
 near Brevard, Transylvania County, with the exception of one
 species from Linville.
Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). Abundant. Largest 128
 mm. One abnormal, with hunched back.
Notropis spectrunculus (Cope). Eleven examples 50 to 70 mm.
 The black spot at the caudal base is triangular in shape. Dr.
 H. M. Smith says it is "exceedingly abundant in the upper waters
 of the Swannanoa, but is scarce in other tributaries of the French
 Broad. " I have compared examples in the Academy from the
 French Broad in Henderson County.
Notropis coccogenis (Cope). Very abundant. Specimens of
all ages secured the largest 110 mm. Adult males with front
edge of snout, preorbital and mandibular rami covered with small
tubercles. Also inner surfaces of pectoral rays with each of larger
with row of fine tubercles. In preserved examples the blackish
humeral bar, band on upper portion of dorsal and submarginal
cresent distinct.
Notropis brimleyi B. A. Bean.
Head 3f to 3f; depth 4| to 4f; D. in, 7, i; A. in, 7, i; scales
 35 to 38 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 6 or
 7 scales above 1. 1., 4 or 5 below; predorsal scales 15 to 21; snout
 3 1 to 3 1 in head; eye 3 J to 3f; maxillary 2f to 2f; inter-
 orbital 3 to 3|. Body elongately fusiform, moderately compressed.
 Muzzle pointed slightly longer then eye in adult, its length about
 | its width. Mouth oblique, lower jaw slightly included. Maxil-
 lary reaches opposite front pupil edge. Interorbital little wider
1 t PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
than eye. Teeth 2, 55, 2, with moderate grinding surf aces. Scales
 largest and slightly imbricated along middle of sides. Apical
 marginal striae 10 to 18. Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal
 than snoul tip, nearly midway in young, slightly behind
 ventral origin. ( !olor in alcohol, back brown with scales distinctly
 dark edged, in some examples sharply so and approaching duskyor
 black. Leaden lateral band from shoulder to caudal base medianly,
 mning blackish on latter and side of caudal peduncle, so that
 distind Mack spol at caudal base, more or less reflected out in
 median caudal rays basally. Dark median line down back. Fins
 all pale. Iris, sides of head and lower surface of body largely
 whitish with silvery reflections. Many examples show edges of
 costal scales sharply dusky and dark oblique line from shoulder
 to pectoral axil. An adult male shows end and edge of snout,
 also sides of mandible, finely tuberculate. Thirty-three examples,
 25 to 75 mm.
Quite variable when preserved, especially color and size of eye.
 This species does not seem to have been found since described.
Rhinichthys atronasus (MitchiH). Twenty-four examples, larg-
 esl 69 mm.
Fundulus catenatus (Storer). Nine young from Linville, the
 only species from this locality.
Poedlichthys flabellans (Rafinesque). Six.
Cottus bairdii Girard. Five, largest 60 mm.
South Carolina.
(1). On October 19, 1921, we visited the Pacolet River above
 Spartanburg, in the basin of the Broad River, Spartanburg County.
 A1 the dam. just east of the town, this is a broad muddy stream,
 with many soft banks in the back-water. Below the dam we found
 a mass of shallow pools, with debris, snags, many large rocks,
 etc. Few fish were found except in the deep holes, and these all
 of small size.
Ameiurus ruins (Linne). Young examples.
Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). Four, mostly silvery, though
 otherwise very pale.
Notropis hudsoiiiu-s .salurimivs (Jordan and Brayton). One
 example li? mm. Caudal with very pale spot.
Notropis niveus (Cope). Four .small ones.
Notropis scepticus (.Jordan and Gilbert).
Head 3 ; to 1; depth 4 to 4; D. in, 7, i, forward rudimentary
 rays abnormally i; A. in, 10, i, abnormally n, 7, and in, 2; scales
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15
22 to 35 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 6 scales
 above 1. 1., 4 below, predorsal scales 15 to 18, snout 3^ to 3f in
 head; eye 3 to 3|; maxillary 2f to 3|; interorbital 3^ to 3f .
 Body well compressed, rather deep, also head. Muzzle conic,
 length | its width. Eye large, slightly larger than snout, less than
 interorbital. Maxillary reaches eye. Upper lip opposite eye center,
 jaws equal. Interorbital convex. Teeth 1, 4  4, 1, hooked,
 with grinding surfaces. Lateral scales rather narrowly imbricated,
 predorsal smaller, though without crowded appearance. Scales
 with 6 to 18 apical marginal striae, circuli coarse. Dorsal origin
 well behind ventral origin or slightly nearer caudal base than
 snout tip. Color in alcohol pale grayish, sides of head and lower
 surface with bright silvery-white tints. Median lateral plumbeous
 streaks along side of caudal peduncle. Edges of scales on back
 slightly dusky. Four examples, 55 to 65 mm. long.
This is the southern deeply-bodied ally of Notropis photogenis
 and occurs chiefly in the Santee Basin. Though said to be abundant
 locally we secured only the few examples described above, all
 with abnormal fins and one with an abortive snout, snub-nosed.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Young one.
Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Very common.
(2). Later in the day we visited Fair Forest Creek, also basin
 of the Broad River, near Arkwright, Spartanburg County. This
 is a clear brook where we explored, flowing over a rocky and gravelly
 bottom. All the rocks were of moderate size. The stream was
 without any submerged aquatic vegetation, except a little eelgrass
 in its lower reaches which contained many craw-fishes (Cambarus).
Notropis lutipinnis (Jordan and Brayton).
Head 4; depth 3^ to 4; D. in, 7, i; A. in, 6 or 7,i; scales 37 in
 lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 7 scales above
 1. L, 4 or 5 below; predorsal scales usually 17: snout 3^ to 3| in
 head; eye 3| to 3|; maxillary 2| to 3|; interorbital 2| to
 2|. Body well compressed deep. Head compressed, short.
 Muzzle conic, length about f its width. Eye rather large. Mouth
 moderate, lower jaw slightly included. Maxillary reaches eye.
 Interorbital convex. Teeth 2, 4  4, 2, hooked, with grinding
 surfaces. Upper surface and sides of head finely tuberculate.
 Scales all well exposed, slightly crowded before dorsal. Scales
 with radiating apical striae conspicuous, 11 to 15, circuli coarse.
 Dorsal origin behind ventral origin, about midway between snout
 tip and caudal base. Color in alcohol with all fins, at least
 basally, bright yellow. Males largely with body flushed with
 pink to reddish. Broad black lateral band very conspicuous,
 though best defined along caudal peduncle side ; bordering above
 a gamboge-olive streak. Twenty examples, 47 to 53 mm.
16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
This species is greatly suggestive of Notropis chalybaeus, but
 differs in coloration, especially its characteristic yellowish fins
 and broader Mack lateral band. We found it only in the deeper
 pools.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Very abundant. All
 taken are young.
Lept mis auritus I Linne). Six examples, largest 85 mm.
(3). October 18 we visited the Saluda River at Piedmont, in
 Greenville County. This muddy river for about three miles did
 not afford a single suitable place to operate our small seine. The
 bank- were steep and mostly all overgrown, and very few places
 even accessable from them. About a mile below Piedmont we
 found a small estuary, known as "Depot Branch," the only place
 we could examine satisfactorily. Above, Depot Branch was found
 to be but a small brook, partly polluted from near-by dwellings,
 though it contained a number of fishes. It flows chiefly through a
 sandy valley of cotton and corn -fields. Though we did not meet
 with any, eels were said to ascend its reaches. The river fishermen
 reported various suckers, "carps", "white-carps", chubs, cats,
 yellow-cats, channel-cats, crappies, sunfish, fliers, spotted-sunfish,
 and yellow-perch in the river. The following fishes were all obtained
 in Depot Branch:
Schilbeodes insignis (Richardson). One 110 mm. It agrees in
 every way with Pennsylvania specimens.
Ilifbognathus nuchalis Agassiz. Eight, largest 70 mm. Coloration
 very pale. Back pale olivaceous, sides and below silvery-white.
Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). Abundant, all small.
Notropis niveus (Cope). Series of 270 examples, largest 57 mm.
 in alcohol the dark lateral streaks only distinct along side of caudal
 peduncle, ending in the rather faint dusky basal caudal spot.
 Along side medianly this streak dull blue, in life. My specimens
 evidently represent the Codoma chloristia Jordan and Brayton,
synonym of the present species.
Very abundant in large schools in the deeper pools about the
 more quid places. A handsome little fish, similar, or greatly
 like Notropis whipplii. No example in nuptial coloration met
 with.
Notropis lutipinnis ('.Jordan and Brayton). Thirteen examples,
 larg out ID nun.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17
Hybopsis rubrifrons (Jordan). Five small examples, which
 agree with those from Toccoa Creek.
 Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque). Young example.
 Lepomis auritus (Linne). Two young.
Georgia.
(1). Toccoa Creek, tributary of the Chatooga River in the
 Tungalow River Basin, near Toccoa, Stephen County, was visited
 October 17. This is a stream of moderate size, with sandy and
 gravelly bottom. It is polluted with three local sewers, though
 apparently not greatly detrimental to fish-life, which was very abun-
 dant in the pools. Large suckers, cats, sunfish and perch were re-
 ported abundant.
Notropis rubricroceus (Cope). Very abundant and found in
 schools of varying size, of from a few individuals to several hundred.
 We secured over three hundred specimens. In the adults snout
 brilliant orange. Often small examples show an orange tip to the
 snout, without the brilliant orange-red color of the body in general.
 In the young often also dorsal base, caudal and other fins all more
 or less tinted with pale orange.
Hybopsis rubrifrons (Jordan).
Head 3^ to 3|; depth 4j to 5; D. ii, 7; A. n, 7, scales 35 in
 lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter, 6 scales above
 1. 1., 5 below; 14 predorsal scales; snout 3 to 3| in head; eye 3^
 to 3f; maxillary 3 to 3f ; interorbital 3 to 3\. Body fusiform,
 moderately compressed. Head conic, scarcely compressed. Snout
 conic, somewhat depressed, length about  its width. Eye high,
 less than snout, little advanced, equals interorbital, greater than
 snout and interorbital in young. Mouth small, snout greatly
 protruding. Maxillary reaches eye, terminal barbel always con-
 spicuous. Interorbital broadly convex. Teeth 1,4  4, 1, hooked,
 with grinding surfaces. Scales more or less uniform, absent from
 breast, with 10 to 13 radiating striae, and circuli moderate.
 Color in alcohol with back pale olivaceous, each scale on back
 bordered broadly with dull dusky dots. Dusky leaden band from
 front of preorbital to base of caudal, where it ends in a small dusky
 spot. Under surface of head and trunk, below lateral band, bright
 silvery white. Fifty specimens, 40 to 84 mm.
Abundant in the channels, associated with the other species.
 Compared with Hybopsis amblops, from Paint Rock, Alabama,
 the eye of the latter is larger, greater than either the snout or inter-
 orbital space. In Hybopsis rubrifrons the eye is distinctly smaller
 than the snout and though it often equals the interorbital is
18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
usually less. Its head is also shorter and broader though Jordan
 and Evermann say "head long, narrower than in H. amblops."*
The plumbeous median lateral band of Hybopsis rubrifrons
 extends indistinctly around the snout and is usually within the
 compass of the lateral line, ending in a dark caudal spot not es-
 pecially pronounced. Each scale of lateral line with a cluster of
 black dots, one above and the other below each tube. At this
 season our specimens are with pale olivaceous backs, scales dark
 edged and sides below bright silvery white. Fins also pale. No red.
 Hybopsis rubrifrons was originally described from the South Fork
 of the Ocmulgee River at Flat Rock in De Kalb County, based
 on six specimens. Its occurrence and abundance in the Savanna
 Basin is therefore of interest.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Very abundant. Though
 without ornamentation at this season all the specimens show the
 dorsal and anal nearly bittersweet-orange in tint, varying to more
 deeply in some individuals. The dark median lateral band distinct,
 though not conspicuous, only faintly present in the adults, the
 largest 116 nun. Ninety specimens.
< atostomus nigricans (Le Sueur). Six largest 93 mm.
Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque). Six small examples.
(2). In a small tributary brook of Toccoa Creek, near Toccoa,
 we found many fine minnows. This stream is of rapid cold water,
 flowing over rocks with many cascades, riffs, and a few water-falls.
Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). One young example.
Notropis rubricroceus (Cope). The most abundant species in
 all the rock-pools, and deeper places in the brooks. The adults,
 largely silvery at this time, have much the appearance of Leuciscus
 vandoisulus.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Seven young.
Catostomus nigricans (Le Sueur). Three young.
Minytrema melanops (Rafinesque). One young.
On October 16, the headwaters of the Oconee River, near
 hula, Hall County, were visited. The stream we visited was a
 small clear cold spring-fed brook. It flows through bottom-lands
 with little incline, over gravel and red clay. In most places it is
 diflicult to approach, on account of thickets and shrubs.
- Bull. I". s. Nat. Mus., No. 47. pt. 1, 1896, p. 320.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19
Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). Three examples, largest
 90 mm.
Notropis rubricroceus (Cope). Twenty-six, largest 70 mm.
 The young of this species differ from those of Notropis coccogenis
 in the dark lateral band distinct on the head and front part of the
 body, also continuous around snout. Also its dorsal is flushed
 with orange. Our largest example in alcohol shows the back and
 sides forward nearly grenadine-red and rest of body more or less
 flushed orange. Iris tinged with orange. In life these colors were
 variably conspicuous, appearing only as a slight rosy flush, the
 general appearance of the fish bright silvery white. The dark
 line down the back medianly very distinct, especially on predorsal
 region.
Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). Twelve examples, largest
 42 mm. Compared with Susquehanna River examples in the
 Academy, from Pennsylvania, they agree in every way. The small
 blackish spot at the caudal base is present in all.
Poecilichthys inscriptus (Jordan and Brayton).
Head 3f to 3f; depth 5 to 5|; D. X, i, 9 or 10; A. II, n, 5,
 or 7, or i, 7; scales 44 or 45 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more
 on latter, though only one of last tubular; 5 scales above 1. 1. to
 spinous dorsal origin, 7 below; 12 to 14 predorsal scales; snout
 3f to 3^ in head; eye 3^ to 4|; maxillary 2>\ to 3f ; interorbital
 lj to 1^ in eye. Body elongated, compressed, caudal peduncle
 rather deep. Head large, front profile steep. Snout obtuse,
 length about  its width. Eye high, greater than interorbital.
 Mouth moderate, little inclined; lower jaw included. Maxillary
 reaches pupil. Interorbital nearly level. Gill-rakers 2 +7, lanceolate.
 Gill-membrane forms broad free fold across isthmus. Head and
 breast naked. Scales with 11 to 13 basal striae, apical denticles
 30 to 32, their basal elements in about four series, and circuli
 moderate. Caudal slightly emarginate behind. Color when fresh
 rich olive brown above, with reddish spot on most scales. Down
 back six dark saddles, one just before spinous dorsal, second at front
 dorsal spines, third at junction of dorsals, fourth at front of soft
 dorsal, fifth close behind soft dorsal and sixth on caudal peduncle
 near caudal. On sides, mostly below lateral line row of seven dark
 olive blotches. Dark line from eye to snout tip, slightly on upper
 lip. Cheeks, opercles and anal brilliant blue green, bar below eye
 dusky. Fins pale, spinous dorsal with submarginal black band,
 below and adjoining an orange one, and each membrane dusky
 basally. Soft dorsal with about three pale dusky longitudinal
 bands, same on caudal. Pectoral tinted with dull orange basally,
 and six dusky cross-bars. Ventral whitish. Three examples, 38
 to 65 mm.
20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
This handsome little fish was found only in the ripples or little
 rapids. Previously only known from the type, obtained at Sulphur
 Springs in Hall County in 1878.
I . In South Utoy Creek, basin of the Chattahoochee River,
 Fulton County; we fished the stream near Connally's Pond. The
 tributary branch from East Point is polluted. October 15 we
 found the pond at Connally's with a deep and soft bottom, so
 could not use a seine. Though individuals were abundant we
 found few species of fish, but suckers, blue-cats, and black-bass
 were reported.
. 1 mi iurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). Six examples secured, the largest
 78 mm., though others much larger were seen. Most were mottled
 with dusky, and represent Pimelodus marmoratus Holbrook, while
 others partly to nearly uniform.
Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). Thirty-seven secured, largest
 83 mm. All pale.
Chaeriobryttus gulosus (Cuvier). Ten examples, largest 64 mm.
 ( 'ommon.
Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). Ten secured, largest 113 mm.
 < Jommon and pale.
Lejxnnis incisor Valenciennes, Three.
(5). Also on October 15 we visited Pea Vine Creek, near Atlanta,
 Fulton ( Dunty. This is largely a depleted stream, quite rocky, and
 with many attractive pools. Below the waters are greatly polluted
 with sewage.
Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). Nine, largest 70 mm.
Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). Seven, largest 71 mm.
 One with deformed snub-nosed muzzle.
(6). October 14 we visited Cedar Creek, tributary to the Coosa
 River al Nan's Valley, in Floyd County. We first examined this
 beautiful stream several miles below Rome, and found it rather
 rapid and the water irreenish in color. Shallows occur in places,
 with lilt's and little falls every span of a hundred yards or more.
 It was ,i difficult and hard day along the banks of thick vegetation,
 we working to Van's Valley and finally to Cave Springs.
Votropis stigmaturus (Jordan). An adult 78 mm. long and two
young. Though reported abundant at Rome as "spot-tail" we
aw the above and a tew examples in the deep pools of Cedar
The young may he distinguished from those of the following
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21
species by the larger black blotch, similar to that of the adult.
Notropis callistius (Jordan). Forty-one examples.
Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). Four young.
Notropis chrosomus (Jordan). Five examples. In alcohol the
 largest shows an orange band above adjoining the dusky median
 band. Iris silvery-white, with slight rosy-purple tint.
Catostomus nigricans (Le Sueur) Four young.
Boleosoma stigmaeum (Jordan).
Head 3^ to 3f; depth 5f to 6^; D. IX i, 11; A. II, 9; scales
 42 in lateral line to caudal base and 2 more on latter; tubes in
 1. 1. 23 to 32; 5 scales above 1. 1., 5 below; predorsal scales 8; snout
 3 1 to 3 1 in head; eye 2>\ to 4; maxillary 3^ to 3|; interorbital
 If to 2 in eye. Body elongate, slender, but slightly compressed.
 Head well compressed. Muzzle rather short, length f its width.
 Eye large elevated. Mouth small, lower jaw slightly included.
 Maxillary not quite to e} r e, but little protractile. Interorbital
 narrow. Opercular spine moderately large. Gill-membranes
 deeply cleft, but slightly connected. Scales on opercles, head
 otherwise naked. Breast and predorsal naked. Scales with 9
 or 10 basal marginal striae, apical denticles 19 or 20, rather large,
 with three series of basal elements, and circuli large. Caudal
 slightly emarginate. Color in alcohol pale brownish tessellated or
 speckled with deep brown to dusky above. About nine w-like
 marks of dusky close along and below lateral line. Six dark saddles
 down middle of back. Dorsals and caudal finely barred with
 duskjr. Dusky streak from eye to snout tip and another below
 eye. Two examples.
This species bears a great resemblance to Boleosoma nigrum,
 though both specimens show two anal spines. In my series of
 Boleosoma nigrum there is usually but a single anal spine. Originally,
 described with a band of bright orange red above on the spinous
 dorsal.
Cottus bairdii Girard. One 44 mm. This represents the Pot-
 amocottus zopherus Jordan, or the dark colored southern variety
 of the Alabama basin.
Alabama.
(1). We first visited Swan Lake, in Morgan County, October 10.
 This is a large still body of water, mostly muddy, about a mile
 long and a few hundred yards in width. During very high water
 it is connected with the Tennessee River.
Polyodon spathula (Walbaum). Tail of a large example examined;
 caught in the lake.
22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Ambloplites rupestris (Hafinesque). Several.
Chaenobryttus gulosus (Cnvier). Three secured. A common
species.
Lepomis incisor Valenciennes. Thirteen. Very common.
Micropterus salmoides (Lacepede). Several examples, 2\ to 3
 pounds, caught with plugs.
2 . In the Tennessee River above Albany, October 11, we found:
Lepisosteus osseus (Linne). Saw portions of an adult example
 ai the ship-yard.
Ictalurus punctatus (Hafinesque). Several of about two pounds.
Notropis umbratilis (Girard). Ten young examples, brilliant
 silvery in life, seined along the river.
 Stizostedion canadense (Griffiths). One adult.
(3). In the ponds along the river, mostly muddy, and about
 Albany, we found:
Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Very common, also the next.
Lepomis incisor Valenciennes.
(4). Limestone Creek, at Bellemina, Morgan County, October 12.
 This tributary of the Tennessee River is sluggish and rather
 muddy, shallow in places and with a bottom of small stones and
 pebbles. In pools left by floods or high water, we found many
 small fish entrapped. The riffs were all shallow and gradual,
 though shallow places scarce and hard to reach.
Ameiurus natalis (Le Sueur). Two, larger 67 mm.
Campostoma anomalum (Rafmesque). Thirteen. Small and dark.
Hybognathus nuchalis Agassiz. One 86 mm.
Pimephales notatus (Rafmesque). Eleven.
Ceratichthys vigilax Baird and Girard. Three examples.
Notropis coccogenis (Cope). Twenty-four.
Notropis umbratilis (Girard). Eleven. This would be Notropis
 umbratilis fasciolaris Gilbert, though my examples differ in their
 normal slender body and absence of five to eight dark blue, vertical,
 cross-bars.
Hybopsis amblops (Hafinesque). Thirteen.
Minytrema melanops (Rafmesque). Five Though the largest
 example is only 90 mm. long, most show the dorsal and anal with
 brick red tints and the former black apically.
Moxostoma aureolum (Le Sueur). Four, largest 75 mm. All
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23
have five to eight tubular scales in fore part of lateral line. Largest
 with anal and caudal tinted brick-red.
Fundulus notatus (Rafinesque). Three.
Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). Very abundant.
Apomotis cyaneUus (Rafinesque). Eleven.
Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). Four.
Percina caprodes (Rafinesque). Four.
Ulocentra simotera (Cope). Five.
Poecilichthys maculatus (Kirtland). One. It shows: D. XII  i,
 11, A. II, 10; scales in 1. 1. 52 to caudal base and 3 more on latter.
Poecilichthys coeruleus (Storer). Five.
(5). On October 13 we visited the Paint Rock River at Paint
 Rock, in Jackson County. This broad stream, tributary also to
 the Tennessee River, was partly clear, though muddy in places.
 Below the dam we found a few stony shoals, especially about the
 fords. A mile below were high banks, where the bottom was
 largely clay, and only one place with a few submerged aquatic
 plants. Also, in many places the shoals were full of snags. In
 most places the only fish were free-swimmers, as we could not
 drag the shoals on account of the rocks on the bottom.
Ameiurus natalis (Le Sueur). Saw one dead exanple.
Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). Fourteen examples.
Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). Ten, largest 75 mm.
Opsopoeodus emiliae Hay.
Head 4; depth 4; D. n, 8, i: A. n, 7, i; scales 35 in lateral
 line to caudal base and 2? more on latter; 6 scales above I. 1., 4
 below; 19 predorsal scales; snout 4 in head from upper jaw tip;
 eye 3i; maxillary 4; interorbital 2f. Body fusiform, com-
 pressed. Head compressed. Muzzle obtuse. Snout depressed,
 length f its width. Eye large, greater than snout, less than inter-
 orbital. Mouth small, cleft less than pupil, vertically oblique,
 mandible well protruded and snout tip level with upper part of
 pupil. Interorbital broadly convex. Predorsal scales little crowded,
 somewhat narrowly imbricated along side of trunk, moderate
 on breast, apical radiating striae 6 or 7, circuli coarse. Dorsal
 inserted little nearer snout tip than caudal base, first branched
 rays depressed back much further than last. Color in alcohol
 very pale olivaceous above, sides and below silvery-white. Dusky
 lateral band, made up of black dots, on preorbital and opercle
 to caudal base, where ending in slight dusky spot, width much
 less than pupil. Fins all pale, with dusky dots along bases of
 dorsal and anal and row down predorsal. Length 48 mm.
Besides the above I examined another example in the Academy,
2 i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
53 mm. long from Beaumont, Texas. Head 4 T V; depth 4; D. n,
 8, r A. ii. 7. i: -rales 37 in lateral line to caudal base and 2
 more on latter; 7 scales above -1. 1., 4 below; 21 predorsal scales;
 head width I, 1 iii its total length; snout 3; eye 3|; maxillary 4;
 interorbital '!}: teeth 5  5.
N"o1 common. An interesting little fish, and is easily distin-
 guished among our cyprinoids by its very small mouth and strongly
 projecting lower jaw. Not previously known from the Tennessee
 River basin.
Ceratichtkys vigilaz Baird and Girard. Four small examples.
Notropis hoops Gilbert. Two examples, largest 55 mm. These
 specimens 1 questionably place with this species. They are greatly
 like Hybopsis amblops of equal size, though without any grinding
 surfaces, or only with slightly or irregular transverse grooves
 suggestive of erenulations.
Votropis whipplii (Girard). Seven examples, largest 60 mm.
Notropis coccogenis (Cope). Ten, largest 73 mm.
Notropis telescopus (Cope). Thirty-one.
Notropis umbratilis (Girard). Very abundant.
Hybopsis dissimilis (Kirtland). Twenty-two examples, largest
 84 mm. Only met with in schools, at the ford, in open shallow
 water. The species appears to collect in schools of moderate size,
 and mostly composed of individuals of uniform size.
Hybopsis amblops ( Rafinesque). Twenty-two.
Moxostoma aureolum (Le Sueur). One young example. Paired
 fins and dorsal pale orange, tip of latter blackish.
Fundulus catenatus (Storer). Adult male 90 mm. long. Associ-
 ated with Hybopsis dissimilis.
Fundulus notatus (Rafinesque). Two.
Labidesthes sicculus (Cope). Ten.
Lepomis megalotis (Rafinesque). One 40 mm.
Micropterus dolomieu (Lacepede). One young.
l-'.lh, ostoma blennioides Rafinesque. One 52 mm.
Ulocentra simotera (Cope).
Head 3| to 4; depth .V, to 5|; D. X i, 9 or r, 10; A. II, 7:
 scales 42 to 48 in lateral line to caudal base, and 3 more on latter^
 though only one tubular; 4 or 5 scales above 1. 1. to spinous dorsal
 origin,
 snout
 U to
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25
forward. Head moderate, greatly obtuse. Snout obtusely convex,
 both in profile and over surface, length | its width. Eye anterior
 to head center, elevated. Mouth small, but little inclined, lower jaw
 slightly included. Maxillary reaches eye. Interorbital slightly
 concave. Gill-rakers 2+7, lanceolate, short. Gill-membrane
 a broad fold over isthmus. Cheeks and 'breast naked, opercles
 scaly. Preclorsal scales small and crowded. Scales with 10 basal
 radiating striae, apical denticles 23 or 24, with basal elements in
 3 to 5 rows, circuli coarse. Color in alcohol pale olivaceous above
 generally. Down back medially nine dark brown saddles, usually
 alternately dark and pale. Back marked with many waved, dusky
 specks, bars or blotches. Along lateral line twelve vertical
 blotches, mostly below. Upper surface of snout speckled with
 dark brown, bounded below by dusky bar from close to snout tip,
 though above upper lip, to eye. Broader dusky bar below eye.
 Dorsal spines each with five broad dusky blotches, last four on
 membranes usually with blackish streaks parallel with spines
 terminally. Soft dorsal and caudal barred with dusky. Pectoral
 pale or only with faint bars. Five examples, 38 to 45 mm.
Boleosoma nigrum (Rafinesque). Ten, all small and pale.
Poecilichthys maculatus (Kirtland).
Head 3 to 3f; depth 5| to 6; D. XII i, 11; A. II, 8 or 9;
 scales 46 to 53 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 3 or 4
 more on latter; 38 to 41 tubular scales in lateral line, 6 above,
 6 or 7 below; preclorsal scales 12 or 13; snout 3^ to 4 in head; eye
 3| to 3|; maxillary 3j to 3|; interorbital 2 to 2| in eye.
 Body long, slender, but little compressed. Snout convex, both
 in profile and over surface, pointed, about long as wide. Eye
 advanced, elevated, nearly or quite long as snout. Mouth but
 slightly inclined, mandible included. Maxillary slightly beyond
 front eye edge. Interorbital narrowly concave. Gill-rakers 2+9,
 rather short, obtuse. Gill-membranes deeply cleft. Cheeks and
 breast naked, postocular and opercles scaled. Preclorsal scales
 reduced. Scales with basal radiating striae 10 or 11, apical denticles
 21 to 24, with basal elements in 3 or 4 rows. Lateral line incomplete,
 usually not extending beyond soft dorsal, occasionally to middle
 of caudal peduncle side. Color in alcohol, pale olivaceous above,
 with six dark saddles down middle of back. Scales on back more
 or less bordered dusky or brown. Along sides ten or eleven w-like
 dusky blotches. At caudal base medianly jet-black blotch, about
 size of pupil. Dorsals and caudal barred with dusky. Broad dusky
 bar on side of snout to eye, also dusky blotch below and behind
 eye. Paired fins and anal pale or whitish, few dusky specks close
 about base of latter. Six examples, 35 to 45 mm.
The Bellemina example, with ten branched anal rays is greatly
 suggestive of Etheostoma tessellata Storer 3 . Quite likely Etheostoma
3 Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., 2, 1845, p. 48. Florence, Alabama.
;,
2G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
cinereum Storer 4 is .mother synonym.
According to the original account of Etheostoma maculata Kirt-
 land, the dorsal fins are connected and the anal has only a single
 spin
Po( dlichthys squamiveps (Jordan).
Bead 3|; depth 5; 1). XI i, 11; A. II, 8; scales 51 or 52 in
 lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 5 scales above
 1. 1., 7 below; predorsal scales 11 or 12; snout 4j to 4| in head;
 eye 3 to 3|; maxillary 3| to 4; interorbital If in eye. Body
 moderately long, compressed. Head obtuse, compressed. Snout
 convex in profile and over surface, length \ its width. Eye elevated,
 well advanced, greater than snout or interorbital. Mouth little
 inclined, small, jaws nearly even. Maxillary reaches eye. Inter-
 orbital shallowly concave. Gill-rakers 3+8, lanceolate, moderate.
 Gill-membranes broadly free across isthmus. Cheeks and opercles
 scaly. Breast naked. Belly scaled and predorsal scales fine.
 Scales with 7 to 9 radiating coarse striae, apical denticles 16 or
 17. large, basal elements in 3 or 4 rows. Lateral line complete.
 Color in alcohol pale olivaceous above, under surface white.
 Down middle of back, six deep brown blotches. Along lateral
 line, ten dusky rings with dark bar from lower edge of each, some
 reaching anal and others extending over lower surface of caudal
 peduncle. Small blackish spot at caudal base medially, one above
 and another below marginally or at origin of each lobe. Deep
 dusky brown line from snout tip, meets its fellow above upper
 lip, to eye. Blackish bar below eye and blotch close behind. Max-
 illary end dusky and dusky bar across mandible medianly. Dorsals
 and caudal barred with dusky, other fins pale. Length 38 or 39
 mni.. t wo examples.
No mention seems to have been made, by the various writers
 supposed to have obtained this species, of the dark color pattern
 extending to the anal base and on the lower surface of the caudal
 peduncle. My examples appear to agree best with the original
 account of Etheostoma squamiceps Jordan. 6
4 L. c, p. 49. Florence, Alabama.
' Boston .Tourn. Nat. Hist., 3, 1840, p. 276 PI. 2. fig. 3. Mahoning, Ohio.
 Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 10, 1877. p. 11. Russellville, Kentucky.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27
Explanation of Plates I, II.
The line accompanying each figure represents ten millimeters.
 Plate I.  Notropis brimleyi B. A. Bean. Notropis sceplicus (Jordan and
Gilbert).
Hybopsis rubrifrons (Jordan) .
Notropis cerasinus (Cope). Notropis lutipinnis (Jordan and Brayton).
Plate II.  Poecilichthys inscriptus (Jordan and Brayton). Boleosoma siig-
maeum Jordan.
 Catostomus rhothoecus Jordan and Evermann.
 Poecilichthys maculatus (Kirtland). Poecilichthys squamiceps (Jordan).
H
NOTES ON THE RADULA OF THE HELICINIDAE.
By H. Burrington Baker.
This paper is the result of an attempt to ascertain the generic
 position of three species of Helicinidae, which were collected by
 the University of Michigan- Walker Expedition in Southern Vera
 Cruz, Mexico (1910). This led to the examination of the type
 species of characteristic examples of many of the groups of North
 American Helicinidae. The majority of the radulae was studied
 from alcoholic or dried material in the collection of The Academy
 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, kindly put at my disposal by
 Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, whose advice and criticism were of invaluable
 assistance. I am indebted to Mr. E. G. Vanatta and Dr. C.
 M. Cooke for help, especially in technique. Mr. John B. Henderson
 also sent me several Cuban species from his own collection.
Three of the species were studied from the University of Michigan
 collection from Mexico, to which reference has just been made,
 while additional material came from a collection made in Venezuela
 in 1920. As the study was attempted in order to arrange Mexican
 forms, a synopsis of the North American mainland species is
 included in the notes on each group. I hope to take up the
 species from northern South America in a future paper.
A. J. Wagner (1905, 1907-1911) made the most thorough
 attempt, in recent times, to arrange the species of Helicinidae.
 His classification is based solely on shell-characters, mainly the
 shape of the operculum and the position of its nucleus. Although
 a great advance on earlier attempts, his work is seriously marred
 by a general disregard of previous writers on the subject, and of
 the modern laws of priority. Of the 36 new group-names, proposed
 by him for American Helicinidae, only about 16 can be used.
The embryonic operculum of the Helicinidae is spiral and its
 spiral nucleus is evident in the adults. Thus the adult operculum
 may perhaps be regarded as potentially spiral, with the rotation
 arrested by the shape of the aperture. The microscopic structure
 of the columellar margin of many species certainly adds to this
 impression, as the growth-lamellae are crushed and bent outwards
 in this region, as if they actually had resisted an attempted torsion.
 The position of this thickened region varies with the shape of the
 aperture.
(29)
n
30
The operculum consists of two quite distinct layers, an inner
 horny layer, which is often lacking in dried specimens, and an
 outer, calcareous one. The horny layer shows the growth-lamellae
 and the spiral nucleus much less distinctly than does the calcareous
 portion. The relative development of these two layers gives an
 additional character, little used by Wagner.
The radula of the family has been variously described and figured
 but, in most cases, neither figures or descriptions are very usable.
 Under low magnification, it appears to consist of a narrow, trans-
 parent trough, with a broader, rounded ridge on each side. It is
 long and narrow, and in most of the species observed by me, consists
 of about 100 transverse rows, although the extremes show from
 80 to 171. This character seems to be mainly dependent on size,
 and is of little value in the determination of relationships.
Under higher magnification, five groups of teeth can be made
 out: a central group; and a lateral or capituliform complex, and
 a marginal group on each side. The central group consists typically
 of seven, very small, almost colorless teeth (Plate III) : the unpaired
 or rhachidian tooth and three paired centrals on each side. For
 brevity, in the following descriptions the unpaired central is
 termed the R-central (at the left hand in the figures), while the
 paired centrals are called the A-central, the B-central and the
 C-central, in order from the inside out (left to right in figures).
 The R-central is usually a thin and transparent plate, which is
 bent upwards at its distal end so as to form a broad scraping edge,
 or cusp. The paired centrals are variously shaped and cusped,
 but the A-central and B-central primitively appear more or less
 boot-shaped, while the C-central is usually more or less lanceolate
 in outline
The lateral or capituliform complex consists of two structures,
 which are so closely united, as at first to give the impression of a
 -mull', large and complicated lateral (the capituliform lateral of
 I' ischer, (1885.)) Closer examination shows this complex to consist
 <>t two pieces: a comb-shaped (or T-shaped in Vianinae) lateral
 and ;i variously modified, outer accessory plate. The comb-lateral,
 as n may be termed I Plate IV, fig. 17, left), is more or less trape-
 zoidal or spoon-shaped as viewed from the central side, and the
 upper edge is thickened and reflected (Plate IV, fig. 17a). This'
 upper edge i^- so heavy as to appear horn-colored, even under
 agnification, and bears the large cusps. The outer, handle
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31
like portion (Plate IV, fig. 17b) is continuous with a thickening
 on the central posterior side of the tooth; this thickening runs
 diagonally from the base to near the inner tip of the comb-lateral.
 Outside of the handle-like portion is a thinner, triangular portion
 portion (Plate IV, fig. 17c), which fits over the inner end of the
 accessory plate. The anterior (upper in figures) edge of this
 triangular portion is often thickened and reflected, so as to form
 a continuation (Plate IV, fig. 17d) of that which bears the cusps.
 On the under-side of the comb-lateral is a saddle-shaped de-
 pression or hole (Plate IV, fig. 17e) dotted lines, into which fits
 the base of the comb-lateral next anteriad.
The accessory plate (Plate IV, fig. 17, right) is a large, but
 usually thin and transparent, trapezoidal plate, externad to the
 comb-lateral. The inner end (Plate IV, 17f) fits under the tri-
 angular outer portion of the comb-lateral. In many species, all
 of the anterior edge, except that of the outer lanceolate appendix
 (Plate IV, 17g) is reflected to form a broad ledge (Plate IV, fig.
 17h). This is often strengthened by thickenings of various shapes,
 and appears to form a support for the comb-lateral. In Hender-
 sonia and Oligyra, this reflected portion appears to form a wing,
 which completely invests the base of the comb-lateral so as to mask
 its inner cusps. In many other genera, it is much reduced and
 only connects with the outer prolongation of the cusp-bearing
 portion. In the figures where the two pieces are shown separated,
 the position of the inner end of the accessory plate is marked by
 an (x) on the comb-lateral, while that of the outer extremity of
 the comb-lateral is marked on the accessory plate in the same
 manner.
The above description is based on the laterals of the Helicininae.
 In the group of species that center around the genus Eutrochatella
 (Vianinae), the capituliform complex is so highly modified as
 hardly to be recognizable. The accessory plate is much reduced,
 while the comb-lateral is represented by a large T-lateral. The
 latter is very much the shape of half of a mushroom. It bears a
 broad, reflected cusp, which is semicircular in outline as viewed
 from the anterior end, while the stalk portion is about at its middle.
 The accessory plate usually has a rather heavy anterior thickening
 which may form an inner hook, and fits over the outer branch of
 the stalk.
In the normal position, the accessory plate and the outer portion
#
of the comb-lateral are usually hidden by the overhanging mar-
 ginals, even after the radula is flattened out. The centrals are
 arranged in a slightly convex line along the bottom of the trough,
 already mentioned, while the accessory plate is tilted slightly dor-
 sad under the ends of the innermost marginals.
The marginal group consists of a varying number (28 to 136 in
 the species studied) of ligulate teeth. The number appears to vary
 with the size of the species; but a considerable variation in number,
 among species of similar size, appears to be a matter of systematic
 importance. These teeth or uncini are proportionately quite large
 and are so heavy as to appear horn-colored. They are arranged in
 very oblique rows, which run posteriad from the corresponding
 capituliform complex. The bases (Plate III, fig. 6, 9) are broadly
 U-shaped, with the open portion of the U facing the outside of the
 radula: those of contiguous teeth nest into one another. The
 body of the tooth is twisted so as to bring the cusps into action.
 These are arranged across the tip of the tooth or down its outer
 side. The innermost marginal (Plate III, fig. 9) is the broadest
 and shortest of the entire functional series. In the species observed
 the length usually increases gradually toward the outside of the
 radula, until the longest teeth are about one-third of the way
 out from the center; here the teeth are from 1.5 to 2 times as long
 as are the innermost. Towards the outer edge of the radula,
 they again decrease in length, so that the outer teeth are not much
 longer than the innermost. The distal portion becomes more
 -lender in the teeth toward the outside, so that these may only be
 one-third as wide, near the tip, as those at the inner edge. However,
 the hases of the marginals are of about the same width throughout
 each transverse row, andthevery outermost teeth take the form
 of delicate, rectangular plates, as wide as the bases, and arranged
 almosl parallel to the long axis of the radula. In all of the species
 observed, the inner marginals (except sometimes the innermost
 one or two) has the smallest number of cusps, while the number
 gradually increases towards the outside of the radula. Each new
 cusp in the series is added to the outside of the row of cusps. I
ave as high as L5 cusps on the outer, definitive teeth, and have
 mated, by counting portions of the total row, that some of the
road, outermosl marginals have at least 25. The cusps of these
outer, scale-like teeth are so minute as to approach the limits of
opic vision, which probably accounts for the statement
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33
of Troschel (1856-63) that they are without cusps. In every
 species that I have examined under an oil-immersion lens, they
 could be detected.
Two lines of development appear in the structure of the marginals.
 The type that is here considered the most primitive is that repre-
 sented by Hendersonia. In this and related groups (Table I), there
 are a comparatively small number of teeth .with one or two major
 cusps and many minor ones arranged along the outside of the tip.
 In Helicina there is an evident tendency for the cusps to arrange
 themselves on the extreme tip of the tooth, while many West
 Indian genera show a tendency to accentuate the one or two major
 cusps. The climax of the first line of development is seen in H.
 zephyrina, where the cusps of each tooth form a nearly transverse
 row, with the largest teeth in the center of the terminal disc;
 each tooth is so twisted as to bring the transverse crown of cusps
 in a line nearly at right angles to the long axis of the radula. The
 other line of development finally results in the unicuspid inner
 marginals of Sioastoma and the Vianinae (Trochatella).
On account of their complexity, and the vertical position of the
 numerous marginals, the radulae of the Helicinidae are peculiarly
 difficult to study. For this reason it is often necessary to examine
 quite a few specimens and to view the teeth in every possible position,
 in order to correctly interpret their shape. The best results were
 obtained by cutting each radula transversely into several pieces
 with a rather dull-edged scalpel, so as to leave torn edges. Each
 piece must be carefully arranged and then the cover-glass dropped
 on suddenly to flatten the ribbon. In order to study the accessory
 plate it is absolutely necessary to get a place where the marginals
 are missing or turned back. Separated capituliform complexes
 are also of great aid, although the accessory plate, and especially the
 wing, is only too often broken in the process. If the centrals are sepa-
 rated from the laterals and marginals, the cover-glass usually flattens
 them into a position where it is very difficult to study them. In
 all cases, except that of Helicina neritella, the centrals, laterals,
 and the tips of the marginals, are shown in the figures as nearly
 as possible to the natural position, so as to make the views uniform.
When one becomes accustomed to the changes in apparent
 shape, due to different view points, the radulae of different specimens
 of the same species show remarkably little fluctuating variation.
 The centrals and laterals rarely show a variation of more than a
:;i
single cusp, although more commonly one or two cusps will be con-
 siderably reduced. However, the cusps of the centrals, laterals,
i inner marginals are quite often broken or worn, so as to give
 an apparent variation, but an examination of all parts of the
 radula will easily remove this source of error. In specimens of
 similar size, the maximum variation in the number of marginals
 was " teeth, and part of this may have been due to the difficulty
 in ascertaining to which row the divergent outer teeth belonged.
 However, a dwarfed form of Helicina adspersa (H. a.marmorata
 d'Orb. +tenuilabris Pfr.) had only 80 marginals on each side,
 while the larger form had 106.
On the other hand, big variations are fairly common. In one
 of the radulae of Lucidella aureola and in one of Oligyra orbiculata,
 two rows of A-centrals were present on each side, so that there
 were 9 teeth in the central group; this, if a constant character,
 would exclude them from the Helicinidae, as at present defined.
 In these cases, the outer A-central was a little smaller than the
 inner, and, especially in the latter species, somewhat approached
 the B-central in shape. In another radula of H. orbiculata, all but
 one of the cusps on one row of A-centrals were absent or vestigial,
 although the other side was perfectly normal. In a radula of Hender-
 sonia occulta, the seventh marginal on one side was vestigial,
 while an entire longitudinal row of marginals on the other side was
 branched, and bore from 2 to 4 quite perfect tips, each with its
 full complement of cusps. In a specimen of Helicina adspersa
 marmorata, most of the cusps were represented by mere knobs on
 one row of comb-laterals, although those of the other side were nor-
 mal. However, this type of variation comes under the heading of
 monst rosil ies or mutations and is very easily separated from fluctuat-
 ing or intergrading variation. It does not affect the use of the radula
 as an index of relationship, any more than the presence of gill-
 slits, or a fuller complement of aortic arches in an adult human
 being, affeel the use of these characters in the classification of
 vertebrates.
In the following arrangement of the groups of species from the
 mainland of North America, the radular characteristics are listed
 in some detail. Opercular and other shell characters are omitted
 3 used for the separation of groups; they are treated in detail
 by A. .). Wagner I 1907-1911). In each case the name of the group
 is given hist., followed by a list of synonyms. In the West Indian
[1922 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35
groups, which were not studied in detail, sectional names are
 sometimes included as synonyms under subgenera or typical
 sections. Next comes a list of the species in each group from the
 mainland of North America, with synonomical notes, followed by
 a description of the radulae of examples studied.
The following synoptic key shows the main distinguishing
 characters of the groups studied:
A. Capituliform complex consisting of a comb-lateral and accessory
plate Subfamily HelicininaB.
B. Operculum paucispiral; radula "like Helicina" . .Bourciera.
 BB. Operculum subspiral to eccentric.
C. Accessory plate with well-developed wing which invests
 the base of the comb-lateral so. as to mask its outer
 cusps; all paired centrals with well-developed cusps;
 operculum with calcareous plate quite well-developed
 and forming a complete operculum; horny plate thin,
 usually amber-colored.
 D. Operculum subspiral to almost concentric; cusps
 of centrals very well-developed; cusps of comb-
 lateral exceptionally long and pointed; accessory
 plate short and heavy with triangular wing;
 marginals few (39-43) Hendersonia.
E. Operculum subspiral with marginal nucleus
Sect. Hendersonia s. s.
 EE. Operculum subspiral with submarginal nucleus
Sect. Miluna.
 EEE. Operculum -almost concentric, with nearly
central nucleus Sect. Waldemaria.
DD. Operculum eccentric with nucleus near middle of
 columellar margin; cusps of C-central somewhat
 reduced; accessory plate longer; marginals more
 numerous (52-123) Oligyra.
F. A and B centrals not developing heavy backs;
comb-lateral with few, sharp-pointed cusps
 (6-7) ; operculum light with point and corres-
 ponding lip-notch poorly developed
Subgenus Oligyra s. s.
G. A and B centrals like Hendersonia; accessory
 plate with wing slightly reduced, so as to
 show lanceolate outline jmarginals quite strictly
 ligulate; shell depressed with heavy lip
Section Oligyra s. s.
GG. A-central with tendency to reduce the
 number of cusps, which are borne on the
 extreme outer tip; marginals with wing-like
 expansions below the tips, and with number
*
36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
of cusps increasing rapidly towards outside;
shell more globose Section Siiccincta.
FF. A and B centrals with heavy knob-like cusp-
 bearing backs; capituliform processes heavy
 and interlocking; marginals ligulate; operculum
 heavy and usually with inferior point, which
fits into notch in lip Subgenus A Icadia.
H. Smallish shells with notch in lip less well-
 developed; comb-lateral with more pointed
cusps Section Idesa.
HH. Larger shells with well-developed notch or
 lower lip of aperture; comb-lateral with
 large spatulate cusps: R-central longer
than broad Section A Icadia s. s.
CC. Accessory plate smaller with reflection (slightly de-
 veloped or absent) which at most only invests the
 outer tip of the prolongation of the thickened upper
 edge of the comb-lateral; centrals and opercula
 various.
 J. A-central with cusps like Oligyra, or with a thickened,
 cuspless cutting edge; marginals with tendency
 for the numerous cusps of each tip to arrange
 themselves in a transverse row; operculum with
 calcareous plate poorly-developed, often incom-
 plete towards palatal margin; horny plate well-
 developed and bright-colored, usually red
Helicina.
 K. Marginals sickle-shaped with well developed
 lateral wings near tips; A-central with shelf-like
 projection bearing the cusps; accessory plate
 with small body but large lanceolate appendix,
 and with the reflected anterior edge forming a
 lather prominent shelf; operculum and comb-
 laterals as in Tristramia. s. s
Subgenus Helicina. s. s.
 KK. Marginals quite strictly ligulate; A-central and
 accessory plate not as preceding
Subgenus Tristramia.
 L. All paired centrals with well-developed cusps;
 calcareous plate of operculum usually
 somewhat thickened above nucleus, opaque
 ii ii Iky -white to bluish; shells usually with
 spiral s! riations
 -M. Comb-lateral with numerous (9-11), long,
 sharp cusps; shell depressed, angular to
subangular Section Oxyrhombus.
MM. Comb-lateral with more rounded cusps
 (8 LO); shell globose. ...Section Tamsiana.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37
LL. A-central without well-developed cusps; with
 heavy edge.
 N. A-central with one or two points on heavy
 cutting edge; comb-lateral with numerous
 rounded cusps; C-central with two rounded
 points and sometimes 1 or 2 smaller ones;
 operculum as in Tristramia s. s., depressed,
 angular, shells, usually with well-marked
spiral striations Section Angulata.
NN. A-central without cusps; comb-lateral
 with broad, spatulate cusps; operculum
 with calcareous plate thin, weak, and
 usually incomplete; globose shells, usu-
 ally with poorly marked spiral striations
 O. 4 cusps on C-central .... Section Tenuis.
 00. One rounded hook on C-central
Section Tristramia.
JJ. A-central Alcadia-like or highly modified; marginals
with tendency to reduce number of cusps and
to develop one or two primary ones, with others
arranged along outer side; calcareous plate of
operculum usually better developed than horny
plate.
P. A-central hood-shaped; comb-lateral with long
and pointed cusps; accessory plate large but
thin Lucidella.
Q. A-central with well-developed cusps on margin;
 C-central without lateral cusp; shell with lip
entire, perforate Subgenus LindsleyaV. '.
QQ. A-central without well-developed cusps on
 margin; C-central with accessory cusp on
 outside margin; shell imperforate; usually
 toothed
 R. C-central long and slender; few cusps on
 comb-lateral (6) ; small species
Subgenus Poenia.
 RR. C-central broadly lanceolate ; many cusps
 on comb-lateral (9-10); larger species
Subgenus Lucidella.
 PP. A-centrals not hood-shaped; comb-lateral with
 spatulate or very few (3) cusps; accessory
 plate smaller, but usually heavy.
 S. Paired centrals Alcadia-like; comb-lateral
 heavy with at least 6 cusps; inner mar-
 ginals bicuspid Schasicheila.
T. Only few (1-4) marginals bicuspid; shells
 heavy, Analcadia-like; Western Cuba
Subgenus Emoda.
38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
TT. More (9) marginals bicuspid, close-
 ranked; shell usually with upper sinus on
 aperture; Mexico and Guatemala
Subgenus Schasicheila.
 <+. A-central unicuspid; B-central with 3 heavy
 cusps; comb-lateral tricuspid; inner 10 mar-
 ginals unicuspid; shell small, slightly like
Schasicheila s. s. in shape Stoastoma.
AA. Capituliform complex consisting of a mushroom-shaped T.
 lateral and a reduced accessory plate; many unicuspid
marginals Subfamily Vianinae, new.
B. Marginals with sharp-pointed blades; T-lateral with stalk
 as long as width of tooth, which is considerably smaller
 than central field of radula; R-central triangular-ovoid
to broadly elliptic Eutrochatella.
C. All paired centrals with at least three well-developed,
 cusps; T-lateral with cusps on margin; shells smallish
 quite smooth and elongate
Subgenus Troschelviana, new.
D. T-lateral with well-developed cusps on inner portion
 of margin; shell smallish, quite smooth and elongate:
Section Troschelviana.
 DD. T-lateral with a few cusps towards outer portion
 of margin: shell more conoid in shape
Section Cubaviana, new.
 CC. At least A-central without well-developed cusps;
 T-lateral without cusps on margin; shell with spiral
 sculpture..
E. B-central with 3 quite well-marked cusps; T-lateral
with horny thickenings near margin which give the
 tooth a wavy appearance; small species
Subgenus Pyrgodomus.
 EE. Both A and B centrals without well-marked cusps;
 T-lateral without sign of cusps; larger species.
 F. R-central broadly elliptic; operculum with nucleus
 near columellar margin and almost linear; de-
 pressed pagoda-shaped shell
Subgenus Priotrochatella.
 IT. R-central narrowly ovoid to circular; operculum
 with nucleus nearer center
 Sul. genus Eutrochatella; Sections Ustronia,
Excavata, Eutrochatella.
 BB. Marginals with tips more rounded; T-lateral with short,
 -tout stalk, and broad, semicircular cutting edge, so
 ih.it entire tooth is almost or fully as large as the central
 field of the radula (7 teeth); R-central more or less
 shield-shaped with scallops on lateral margins; paired
 centrals and T-lateral without cusps.
1922]
NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.
39
Table I. Relations of Helicinid Groups.
Wing on accessory plate
 Spiral Excentric
operculum operculum
Ho wing on accessory plate
 Primitive More modified
centrals. centrals.
w
o
 c
9,
40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
G. A-central very large; B and C centrals especially re-
 duced : many marginals (100) with rather long blades;
 R-central with rounded base; shell large, globose, that
 of male with a sinus on outer lip; operculum with heavy
calcareous plate Viana. Cuba.
GG. All paired centrals more nearly uniform in size; few
 marginals (28) with short, broad blades; shell de-
 pressed, angular; operculum linear, with horny plate
dominant Calybium. Indo-China.
H. Shell with columellar folds, radula unknown
Subgenus Calybium s. s.
 HII. Shell without columellar folds; radula as above
Subgenus Geotrochatella.
Genus BOURCIERA Pfr. Ecuador.
Bourciera Pfr. (1851). Type B. helicinaeformis Pfr. (1851).
 Bourcieria auct., not of Bonaparte (1850), in birds.
Pseudhelicina Sykes (1907). Proposed new name for Bourcieria auct.; not
 Pfr.
Bourciera, omitted from Wagner, has a paucispiral operculum.
 Troschel (1856-63) describes and figures the radula of the type
 species and remarks: "In regard to the structure of the radula,
 the genus Bourciera belongs to the Rhipidoglossa, and indeed to
 the family Helicinacea; in fact it agrees so with Helicina itself,
 that a difference in the dentition can hardly be stated" (trans-
 lation). His figure does not show definitely the structure of the
 capituliform complex, which I regard as especially important in
 the determination of relationships, but the centrals and marginals
 appear quite similar to those of Hendersonia, and I believe the
 i wo groups will be found to be quite closely related. There can
 be no doubt of its position in the Helicinidae.
Unless the structure of the operculum is secondary, this is pro-
 bably the most primitive member of the family. As it is the only
 genus confined to South America, and none of the other genera
 appear to have developed very distinct groups on this continent,
 it seems as if all of the South American Helicinidae are probably
 quite recenl immigrants from the north and that Bourciera, like
 the llama amongst the mammals, is a survival, in the Andes of
 Ecuador, of a primitive type, which disappeared from its original
 oearctic or holarctic home after its invasion of this new territory.
This idea is further substantiated by the total absence of the
 Helicinidae from Africa and the paucity and Oriental type of the
 A.us1 mli.iii species. Probably it is safe to state that the Helicinidae
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41
were absent from the ancient Atlantic or Antarctic continents, or,
 if present, have left no modern descendants.
Genus HENDERSONIA A. J. W. United States, China, Japan.
 Apiopomatinae A. J. Wagner (1905). No possible type genus.
Section Hendersonia s. s. United States
Hendersonia A. J. Wagner (1905). Type (monotype) Helicina occulta Say
(1831). Subfossil, New Harmony, Indiana.
 H. occulta (Say) (1831). Subfossil, New Harmony, Indiana. (North-eastern
U. S.). H. rubella Green (1832). Alleghany County, Pa., U. S. (living
or fresh).
Section Miluna A. J, W. S. China.
Miluna A. J. W. (1905). Type (monotype) M. josefinae A. J. W. (1905);
 Radung-Hubei.
Section Waldemaria A. J. W. Japan.
Waldemana A. J. W. (1905). Type H. japonica A. Adams (1861). Japan.
In this genus the radulae of H. occulta (Say) 1 and H. japonica
 (Adams) 2 were examined. The formulae are shown in Table II.
 In this table, under the headings "A, B and C Centrals" (the
 R-centrals are omitted as they usually have no true cusps) are
 given the number of cusps on each tooth for. the various species.
 Under the heading "Comb-lateral" are given the number of cusps
 on that tooth. Under the heading " Marginals, " the subheadings
 "2, 3, 4, 5, 6" indicate numbers of cusps; under each of these
 subheadings is given the number of teeth that bear the complement
 of cusps indicated. Where the inner teeth bear more cusps than
 some further out; these interstitial few-cusped teeth are put in their
 proper column but are marked with an asterisk, while the two
 groups of teeth with one more cusp, situated on either side of them,
 are put in their proper column but the first and second groups are
 separated by a plus sign. For instance, A. verecunda has 4 cusps
 on the inner most marginal (1 in 4-column), followed by 2 teeth
 with 3 cusps each (2 followed by an asterisk in 3-column), which
 in turn are followed by 3 more teeth with 4 cusps (+ 4 in 4-column).
 Under the heading "Total" are given the number of marginals on
 each side; under "Grand Total" are given the usual number of
 teeth in each transverse row.
In H. occulta, the R-central (Plate III, fig. 1) is peculiarly attenu-
*5 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 10593; collected at Iowa City, Iowa, by
 B. Shimek (1891), and H. A. Pilsbry (1882).
2 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 84383; collected at Sotokaifui, Sado.
 Japan, by Y. Hirase (1902).
12
PRO< EEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
ate basally. As remarked in the key to the groups, the cusps of the
 paired centrals, and especially those of the C-central, are larger
 and better-developed than in any other group; in fact the whole
 central group is large in comparison with the rest of the radula.
 The comb-lateral has comparatively few cusps, but these are large,
 and exceptionally long and well-pointed (Plate IV, fig. 10). The
 accessory plate is heavy bu1 short, and has horn-colored thickenings
 along the inner end and down the middle, while in most of the
 nearly related groups it is comparatively transparent. The re-
 flected wing is large and triangular, although much shorter (trans-
 versely) than in Oligyra. The marginals are practically the same
 shape as those of 0. orbiculata. All are evenly ligulate, with a
 decided tendency for the cusps to be arranged on the outside of
 the tips.
The radula of H. japonica is not figured as it is practically
 identical with that of H. occulta. One more cusp on the B-central
 was noted in one radula of H. japonica but it was absent in the
 other radula examined. This species also showed a slight tendency
 to increase the number of cusps on the marginals more rapidly
 than did //. occulta (see Table II). This practical identity of the
 radulae, despite the divergence in opercula, is the reason for the
 inclusion of Waldemaria as a section in the genus Hendersonia.
 I am very doubtful if Miluna even deserves sectional rank, but
 have seen no specimens.
Table II. Radular Formulae in Hendersonia and Oligyra.
Centrals Comb Marginals Grand
A H C Lateral 2 3 4 5 6 Total Total.
II- occulta 5 5 4 6 7 5 5 5 39-40 89-91
H. japonic 5 5-6 4 6 5 7 5 5 42-43 95-97
A.verecunda 7 8 4 10-11 1* 2+3 4 3 50 111
0. orbiculata 4 6 4 6 3 4 10 7 52 115
O.convexa 4 6 4 7 1* 2+3 2 2 4 81 173
O.f.strebeli 5 8-9 4 7 3 4 3 3 58-62 127-134
O.o.coccinostoma.... 4 7 4 7 5 3 3 3 90 191
0. cacaguelita 2? 4 4 7 4 6 2 4 95 201
O.riparia 5 5 4 9-10 7 6 5 73 157
0. rotunda. 4 5 4 7 1 10 7 82 175
O.palliata 5 5 4 8 10 5 4 5 123 257
rhe radula of Hendersonia is very close to that of Oligyra, and
the separation of the two, on this basis alone, might be rather
However, the shell-characters of Hendersonia^ its wide
tion, and its significance as a primitive, holarctic group
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43
certainly demands it generic recognition. It seems that Hendersonia
 is a primitive genus which once had a wide holarctic distribution,
 but which only survives in a few localities in Asia and North
 America. The case of the giant salamander amongst the amphibians
 (Ohio River, U. S.; and Japan) appears to be analogous. In this
 connection the genus Dawsonella Bradley (1872), from the Car-
 boniferous of Indiana, is at least interesting. If it actually belongs
 in the Helicinidae, the circular aperture would seem to indicate
 that it probably possessed a spiral operculum.
An additional reason for the position of Hendersonia as a primi-
 tive group, was found in the study of the radula of Aphanoconia
 (Sphaeroconia) verecunda (Gould) 3 . This radula (Plate V, fig. 23)
 is also quite close to that of Hendersonia, but its divergence is
 along different lines from that of Oligyra, and apparently denotes a
 divergent line of evolution. The large number of cusps on the
 peculiar paired centrals (Table II), the long comb-laterals with
 numerous pointed cusps, the exceptionally long accessory plates
 with somewhat reduced wings, and the very long and slender
 marginals give an assemblage of characters that separate this
 group from any American one that I have examined. H . verecunda
 Gould (1859) is here chosen as the type of Sphaeroconia A. J.
 Wagner (1909). Verecunda A. J. W. (1909) is an exact synonym.
Pilsbry and Cooke (1908) have described the radulae of H.
 baldwini, uberta, laciniosa, and rotelloidea from Hawaii, and figured
 those first and third. From their studies, it appears that the radula
 of Sturanya Wagner (1905) (Type H. laciniosa Mighels, 1845) is
 very close to that of Sphaeroconia, but that the radula of Oro-
 bophana Wagner, 1905 (type H. uberta Gould, 1847), as they point
 out, is considerably different.
Genus OLIGYRA Say. Tropical and Subtropical America.
Subgenus OLIGYRA s. s. Same distribution.
Section Oligyra s. s. United States; New Mexico, Bermudas etc.
Olygyra Say (1818). Type (monotype) O. orbiculata Say (1818). Easte/n
Fla., U. S.
 Oligyra Say (1819). Emended form of preceding; emended by Say himself.
 Orbiculata A. J. Wagner (1905). Type (by tautonomy) O. orbiculata Say
(1818).
3 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 78852; collected at Ryukyu, by Y. Hirase
 (1900).
44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
? Subglobulosa A. J. W. (1905). " Tvpe (by tautonomy) H. subglobulosa Poey
 L852 Cuba.
 O. orbiculata orbiculata Say (1818). Mouth St. Johns R., Fla. (s. U. S.).
 ?? //. ambeliaw Sowerby (1842).
 ?? //. yestffa "Guild." Sowerby (1842). X. A. Young shell; might be any
helicinid.
 H. hanleyana Pfr. (1849). New Orleans, La., U. S.
 #. snhnrlnfu.lt, i and #. subtropica appear to be Ms. names.
 O. orbiculata tropica ("Jan" Pfr.) (1850).Tampico, Mex. (and s. w. U. S. ).
 O. orbiculata clappi (Pilsbry) (1909). Central and Eastern Fla.
 VO. borealis (von Martens) (1890). Villa Lerdo, Durango, Mex.
O. cordillerae ("Salle"Pfr.) (1857). 3500 meters, Mt. Orizaba, V. C. Mex.
 O. convexa (Pfr.) (1849). Bermuda Islands.
In this typical section, the radula of the type species, 5 and that
 of 0. convexa* have been examined. The radular formulae are
 given in Table II. The centrals of 0. orbiculata (Plate III, fig. 2)
 are similar to those of Hendersonia, but the R-central has a less
 attenuate base, and the C-central has considerably smaller cusps.
 The comb-lateral is somewhat lighter, while the accessory plate
 is both lighter and much more elongate transversely (Plate IV,
 fig. 11). The wing is somewhat reduced, and gives a lanceolate
 outline. The marginals are very close to those of Hendersonia,
 but are slightly more numerous.
The radula of 0. convexa is not figured, but it is very close to
 that of 0. orbiculata. The formula is given in Table II. The
 shell of 0. convexa is also very similar to that of 0. orbiculata; it
 is of the same depressed form and has a similarly thickened peris-
 tome. In this connection, a number of Antillean species, included
 by A. J. Wagner in the sections Subglobulosa and F estiva, need
 examination. Many of them have the calcareous, light-colored
 opercula of this group.
This group has many primitive characters, but in the reduction
 of the wing on the accessory plate, slightly approaches Oxyrhombus
 of Helicina. Its closest relatives are in the section Succincta, thru
 which it is connected with Alcadia. As indicated in the relation-
 ship diagram in Table I, it probably represents a primitive stock
 near the ancestral line of the genus Helicina. The distribution
 of the species appears to sustain this idea, If the Antillean species
1 < (roups preceded by a question-mark are those of which I have not examined
 the radula; species preceded by a question-mark are those I have not seen;
 in the latter, 2 question-marks indicate considerable doubt as to its position
 or specific rank.
5 alcoholic specimens; A. X. S. P. no. 91705; collected near Frierson, La.,
 by l>. S. Frierson I L906).
alcoholic specimens; A. X. S. V. no. X5558; collected on flats near Frascati
 Hotel, Bermuda, by A. Gulick (1903).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45
actually belong here, this section will be represented around the
 main West Indian centers of evolution, but is best represented in
 places where it does not come into competition with the more
 advanced types of the Helicinidae.
Section Succincta A. J. Wagner. Mex. to S. A.
Succincta A. J. W. (1905). Type (by tautonomy) H. succincta von Mar-
 tens (1890). Mexico.
Gemma A. J. W. (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. gemma Preston (1903).
 Costa Rica. Not Gemma Deshayes (1853) teste Fischer (1885).
 O. arenicola (Morelet) (1849). Sisal, Yucatan.
 O. arenicola raresulcata (Pfr.) (1861). Vera Cruz, Mex., sandy.
 O. arenicola succincta (von Martens) (1890). Cordova, V. C, Mex.
 O. flavida flavida (Menke) (1828). Described as from Jamacia, but not since found
 there. Generally recognized as Guat.
??? H. ambieliana Boissy (1835). Tobago, Antilles; more probably near
 H. fasciata Lam.
H. trossula Morelet (1849). Vera Paz, Guatemala.
 .^O. flavida brevilabris (Pfr.) (1857). Guatemala. A larger form.
? H. microdina incommoda A. J. W. (1905). Guatemala.
 O. flavida strebeli (Pfr.) (1861). Mirador, Vera Cruz, Mex.
 O. oaxacana (Pilsbry) (1920). Puerto Angel, Oaxaca, Mex.
? H. microdina A. J. W. (1905, 1910), not Morelet (1851). Vera Paz, Guat.
 O. fragilis fragilis (Morelet) (1851). Peten, Guatemala.
 O. fragilis elata (Shuttleworth) (1852). Cordova, Vera Cruz, Mex.
 O. fragilis merdigera (" Salle "Pfr.) (1855). Vera Cruz, V. C, Mex.
? H. mohriana Pfr. (1861). Orizaba, Vera Cruz, Mex. (intermediate
 between two).
 O. oweniana oweniana (Pfr.) (1849). Chiapas, Mex.
 O. oweniana coccinostoma (Morelets) (1849). Vera Paz, Guat. (very close).
? H. anozona von Martens (1875). Coban, Guat. (color form).
 O. beatrix beatrix (Angas) (1879). Costa Rica.
 ?0. beatrix nicaraguae (A. J. W. ) (1908). Nicaragua.
??0. beatrix confusa (A. J. W.) (1908). Costa Rica, (figure looks more like next).
 O. gemma (Preston) (1903). Costa Rica 7 .
In this section, the radulae of 0. flavida strebeli*, 0. oweniana
 coccinostoma? , and a form near 0. cacaguelita (Pilsbry and Clapp)
 (1903) 10 have been examined. The radular formulae of all three
 forms are shown in Table II, while the first two species are figured.
 Theradula of 0. flavida strebeli (Plate III, fig. 3; Plate IV, fig. 12) is
 very similar to that of Oligyra s. s., but shows a divergence in the
7 H. autoni Pfr. (1848) was described originally without habitat; in Chemnitz
 it is figured with the habitat Sandwich and Gambier I. (South Pacific); while
 in 1852, the habitat is given as Honduras. From the figure and description,
 I doubt if it is an American shell, but consider it near H. pazi " Hidalgo "Crosse
 (1S65), also from the same general region as the habitat given in the second
 paper.
8 1 alcoholic and 5 dried specimens; collected on IT. of Mich. -Walker Exped.
 in Vera Cruz Mex.; Hacienda Cuatotolapam, Canton Acayucan (1910)
9 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 107628, collected in mts. w. of Livingston,
 in Guat. by A. A. Hinkley (1913).
10 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 146582; collected at Cincinnati, Sierra
 Santa Marta Colombia, by Rehn and Hebard. (1920).
|li PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
better development of the wing on the accessory plate, which is more
 like thai of the subgenus Alcadia. The centrals are closer to those
 of Oligyra s. s., as is also the comb-lateral. As shown in
 The synoptic key, the especial characteristics of this group are:
 the wing on the marginals, the increased number of teeth, and the
 tendency for the cusps on the A-central to be reduced to a small
 number at the extreme outer tip. This last character and the wing
 mi the marginals, which is shown in the figure of 0. oweniana
 coccinostoma (Plate V, fig. 24), separate Succincta from all other
 groups. In 0. cacaguelita, the A-central has a triangular expansion
 of the tip, similar to the other species, but the cusps are either
 pracl ically absent or are very much worn in the species, as compared
 to 0. f. strebeli, is probably correlated with the difference in size.
 All of the species show a tendency to increase the number of the
 cusps on the marginals very rapidly.
0. cacaguelita is the only South American species that I can
 place definitely in this group. The section Tamsiana, which Wagner
 places very near his section Gemma, appears from the radula, and
 also from the texture of the operculum, to be a section in Helicina.
Subgenus ALCADIA Gray. West Indies to So. America.
Alcadia Gray (1840). Type H. major Gray (1825). Jamaica.
 Eucaladia, Eualcadia A. J. W. (1907). Type (used as Alcadia s. s.) H.
major Gray.
 Palliata A. J. Wagner (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. palliata C. B.
Adams (1849). Jamaica.
 ?Hispida A. J. W. (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. hispida Pfr. (1839).
Cuba."
 ? Intusplicata A. J. \V. (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. intusplicata
Pfr. (1850). Haiti.
 Incrustata A. \V. (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. incrustata "Gund."
Pfr. (1859). Cuba.
A. .1. W. (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. sericea Drouet (1859).
( 'avenue.
Section Idesa II. and A. Adams. West Indies.
Tdesa II. and A. Adams (1X56). Type (Fischer 1 ") H. rotunda d. Orbigny
 (1845). Cuba.
'"' last three sectional names are included simply for completeness; they
 may represent perfectly valid groups.
I ischer (1885) names the type of the genus Helicina, and then gives', in
 parentheses and without remark, examples of each group. However, he seems
ike an attempt to name the types, as in the first group they are correctly
 For this reason, I have chosen, as far as possible, his examines as types
 oi each group. Emoda II. and A. Adams is an exception, as A. J. Wagner, con-
 trary to his usual habit, uses this group in an emended sense.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47
Leialcadia A. J. Wagner (1907). Type (now chosen, as used by author as
Idesa) H. rotunda d. Orbigny (1845).
 Nitida A. J. W. (1907). Type (by tautonomy) II . nitida Pfr. (1839).
Cuba.
 Megastoma A. J. W. (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. megastoma C. B.
Adams (1849) Jamaica. Not Megastoma Morris and Lycett (1850),
Costa (1850), nor Swainson (1837).
 Mamilla A. J. Wagner (1907). Type (by tautonomy) A. mammilla
Weinland (1862) (A. mamilla A. J. W.). Not Mamilla Tryson (1883),
emendation of Mammilla Schumacher (1817).
 ? Bellula A. J. Wagner (1907). Type H. bellula "Gund." Pfr. (1859)
 ? Ampliata A. J. Wagner(1907). Type H. ampliata C. B. Adams (1850).
Jamaica. 13
Section Analcadia A. J. W. Antilles to Central America.
Analcadia A. J. W. (1907). Type (now chosen) H. dysoni Pfr.
 (1849). Cumana, Venezuela.
?0. dysoni bocourti (C. and F.) (1869). Belize, Honduras.
??0. dysoni diaphana (Pfr.) (1851). Honduras (small, angulate form).
?H. dysoni jasoni von Martens (1890). Isle Bonacca, Honduras.
 ???0. sanguinea (Pfr.) (1849). Honduras (Dyson). Probably an Antillean species.
In this subgenus the radulae of C. palliata u , O. rotunda 15 , and
 O. riparia (Pfr.) 16 were examined. All are included in Table II,
 but only 0. palliata is figured (Plate V, fig. 25) here. The differences
 are indicated in the synoptic key, and in Table II. Except for
 the broad R-central of O. dysoni, they differ mainly in size.
From the indications given by these few radulae, Alcadia appears
 very close to Oligyra s. s. A. J. Wagner (1907) has shown in his
 study of the opercula and shell characters, that the Mexican species,
 which he groups around O. gemma, are connected, in these parti-
 culars, by an intergrading series with the typical forms of Alcadia.
 In the radulae, the biggest break comes between the West Indian
 forms and those of the mainland (exclusive of Analcadia). Never-
 theless, the whole group of radulae, included here in the genus
 Oligyra, form a very closely related group, separated from other
 genera by quite distinctive characters. It is true that the subgenus
 Alcadia and the subgenus Oligyra appear to represent the basal
 members of two diverging lines of evolution, but at present it
 would be extremely difficult to name any very definite characters
 for their separation.
13 The last two sectional names can be used.
14 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 101204; collected at Somerset, Manchester,
 Jamaica by A. P. Brown (1910).
15 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 77022; collected at Marianao, near Havana,
 Cuba, by S. N. Rhoads (1899).
16 2 alcoholic specimens; collected for Univ. of Mich. Museum, near La Fria,
 Estado Tachira, Venezuela (1920).
48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Genus HELICINA Lamarck. Tropical America.
 Subgenus TRISTRAMIA Crosse. Mainland.
 ion ( )\ vrhombus C. and E. Mexico to South America.
Oxyrhombus Crosse and Fisher (1893). Type (now chosen) H. amoena
(1849). Honduras.
 Conr.nl run A. J. \Y. (1905). Type (by t autonomy )H. concentrica Pfr.
 1849 1. Merida, Venezula.
ctisalcata A. J. W. (1905). Tvpe (by tautonomy) H. punctisulcata
 von Martens (1890).
 Punctisulcata A. J. W. (1910). Corrected form of preceding.
 CincteUa A. J. W. (1910). Type (by tautonomy) H. cinctdla Sh. (1852).
 Mexico. Not CincteUa Monterosato (1884).
H. cinctella cinctella Shuttleworth (1852). Orizaba. Mex.
//. botteriana Pfr. (1856). Orizaba, Mexico.
 ?H. cinctella bautistae A. J. W. (1910). Tabasco, Mex.
 "H. panctisulcata punctisulcata von Martens (1890). Omiltem, Guerrero, 8000 ft.
//. pwnclisalcata A. J. W. (1905).
 ??H. punctisulcata zunilensis A. J. W. (1910). Zunil, Guatemala.
 H. amoena Pfr. (1849). Honduras. (Mex. to Panama).
II. pnrpnrcojltirii Mt relet (1849). Guatemala.
 H. sowerbyana Pfr. (1849). Guatemala??? Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mex. (Pilsbry).
 H. ghiesbreghti Pfr. (1857). Chiapas, Mexico.
//. ghisbrechti, ghisbrecti, ghiesbrechti, ghisbreghti, auct.
IV. H. sinuosa Sowerby (1866) and A. J. Wagner (1910) 17 .
In this group, the radulae of H. amoena 18 , H. cinctella 11 *, and H.
 concentrica, 20 have been examined. The radular formulae of all
 three species is given in Table III, while that of H. amoena is
 figured (Plate III, fig. 8; Plate IV, 15). Especially noteworthy
 are the well-developed, sharp-pointed cusps on the A and C centrals,
 and the numerous pointed cusps on the comb-lateral. The narrowly
 reflected border of the accessory plate simply joins the outer
 continuation of the cusp-bearing portion of the comb-lateral. The
 "handle" of the comb-lateral had a peculiar lamellar thickening
 where it crosses obliquely the basal, spoon-shaped portion on the
 tooth. On superficial examination, this might easily be mistaken
 for a wing to the accessory plate.
Although there is considerable break between the radula of this
 group and that of Oligyra s. s., the operculum shows intergrading
 characters. The horny portion is Helicina-like in Oxyrhombus,
 but the calcareous portion is usually somewhat thickened, especially
'As pointed oul by yon Martens (1890), this is certainly not H. sinuosa Pfr.
 L850). Wagner gol bis specimens from Sowerby and Fulton.
Iried specimens; A. X. S. P. no. 114S2S; collected at Gualan, Guatemala,
 by S. \. Rhoads.
.' dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 14577; collected in Mexico, by Salle
! alcoholic specimens; collected for Univ. of Mich. Museum, near La Fria,
  Tachira, Venezuela.
V
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49
over the nucleus; this thickening is peculiarly dead- white to bluish.
 Probably most of the rather elevated, carinate or subcarinate
 species of HeMcina of the Andes belong here. I hope to treat
 them more fully in a future paper, as I have a number of specimens
 from the foot-hills of the Andes, near the Venezuela-Colombian
 border.
Section Tamsiana A. J. W. Northern South America.
Tamsiana A. J. W. (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. tamsiana Pfr. (1850).
 Venezuela.
In this section, the radulae of H. tamsiana appuni von Martens
 (1873) 21 and H. nemoralis Guppy (1866) 22 have been examined.
 I expect to describe them more fully in a future paper, as I have
 numerous specimens of this group, from various localities in the
 Cumbres Mts., Venezuela. The radular formulae are shown in
 Table III.
Although nearest Oxyrhombus, both in shell and radular characters,
 this group shows certain resemblances to HeMcina s. s., on account
 of the more rounded cusps on the comb-lateral and the rather
 peculiar development of the A-central. The marginals are strictly
 ligulate. The operculum is similar to that of Oxyrhombus in tex-
 ture, but H. sanctaemarthae Pilsbry and Clapp (1902), which probably
 belongs here, has the best development of the calcareous plate that
 I have seen in any true Helicina.
Section Angulata A. J. W. 1905. South America to Central America.
Angulata A. J. W. (1905). Type (by tautonomy) H. angulata Sowerby
(1842). Brazil.
 Variabilis A. J. W. (1905). Type (by tautonomy) H. variabilis Wagner
(1827). Brazil.
?H. candeana "d'Orbigny" Sowerby (1842). Bay of Honduras. 23
?H. oxyrhyncha Crosse and Debeaux (1863). Habitat ??. A little larger shell..
?H. oxyrhinca of authors.
??H. rhynchostoma from Central America, of authors.
?H. pterophora Sykes (1902). Guatemala 24 .
?H. oxyrhyncha Wagner (1910). Isle of Bonacca, Bay of Honduras 25 .
21 2 alcoholic specimens; collected for Univ. of Mich. Museum, near Palma
 Sola, Estado Falcon, Venezuela (1920).
22 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 14610; collected (by Guppy?) in Island of
 Trinadad.
23 Not in d'Orbigny (1835 or 1837). As Sowerby says this shell is smooth,
 it cannot be candeana of authors, from Venezuela (Cf. H. rhynchostoma ernesti
 von Martens (1873), as that form has 'very evident spiral striaticns.
24 Ancey (1904) says this is identical with oxyrhyncha; the figures and des-
 cription certainly coincide very well with candeana.
25 There may be a mainland and an insular subspecies, but they are not separ-
 able from the descriptions or figures.
50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
In this group, the radulae of H. caracolla Moricand (1836) 26
 and that of H. rhynchostoma ernesti von Martens 27 have been
 examined. The formulae are given in Table III, and I expect to
 study the group more thoroughly in the near future, as I have many
 specimens from the Cumbres Mts., and Aroa Valley, Venezuela.
The radula of this group like the shell-characters, are more or
 less transitional between Oxyrhombus and Tristramia s. s. The
 A-central has a heavy cutting edge, which is without cusps in the
 specimen of ernesti examined, but usually bears one or two heavy,
 irregular points in caracolla. The C-central has two large, rounded,
 hook-like points and in caracolla has one or two minor points in
 addition. The single Central American species appears closest
 to H. rhynchostoma "Sh." Pfr. (1865), but also resembles con-
 siderably H. rostrata Morelet, as pointed out by Crosse (1863).
Section Tenuis A. J. W. Mexico to Central America; South America.
Tenuis A. J. W. (1910). Type (by tautonomy) H. tenuis Pfr. (1849).
 Mexico.
 H. tenuis tenuis Pfeiffer (1849). Yucatan. Mexico.
H. vernalis Mo. (1849). Peten, Guatemala.
H. lindeni Pfr. (1849). Tapinapa, Mexico.
H. chiapensis Pfr. (1856). Chiapa, Chiapas, Mexico.
H. lindeni minor Ancey (1886) Honduras.
H. lindeni ver apazensis A. J. W. (1905). Vera Paz, Guatemala.
 ?H. tenuis pittieri A. J. W T . (1910). Rio de los Plutimales, Golfe Dolce, Costa Rica.
 ??H. senachuensis A. J. W. (1910). Senachu, Guatemala.
 H. delicatula delicatula Sh. (1852). Cordova, Mex.
//. heloisae "Salle" Pfr. (1856). Cordova, Mexico.
 H. delicatula notata "Salle" Pfr. (1856). Cordova, Mex.
 ?H. durangoana durangoana Mousson (1883). Durango, Mex.
 ?H. durangoana sagulensis A. J. W. (1910). Jalisco, Mex.
The radula of the type species 23 was examined, and the radular
 formula is given in Table III. It differs from that of H. zephyrina
 by the presence of 4 small cusplets on the C-central, but agrees
 with it in the lack of cusps and the development of the thickened
 cutting edge of the A-central (Plate III, fig. 7; Plate IV fig. 14).
 The cusps of the marginals are not arranged as completely on the
 tip of the tooth as in H. zephyrina.
Section Tristramia s. s. Mexico to Colombia.
 Tristramia Crosse (1863). Type (monotype) H. salvini Tristram (1861).
 Guatemala.
!6 2 dried specimens A. N. S. P. no. 14622; collected in Brazil, by J. C. Anthony.
27 1 alcoholic specimen; collected for the Univ. of Mich. Museum, at Palma
28 4 specimens; University of Mich.- Walker Expedition to Southern Vera
 Cruz, Mexico; Hacienda Cuatotolapam, Canton Acayucan.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51
Caloplisma C. and F. (1893). Type (monotype) H. rostrata Morelet
(1851). Guatemala.
 Retorquata A. J. W. (1905). Type (first species) H. zephyrina Duclos
(1833). Mexico.
 Turbinata A. J. W. (1905). Type (by tautonomy) H. turbinata "Wieg.
Menke" Pfr. (1846). Mexico.
 Rostrata A. J. W. (1905). Type (by tautonomy) H. rostrata Mo. (1851).
Not Rostrata Gray (1855).
H. rostrata rostrata Morelet (1851). Vera Paz, Guatemala.
H. salvini Tristram (1861). Coban, Guatemala.
H. rostrata simplex C. and F. (1893).
H. dalli "Bartsch" Fluck (1906). Wani, Nicaragua (bare name).
 ?H. rostrata mategalpensis A. J. W. (1910). Matagalpa, Nicaragua.
 H. rostrata denticulata Pfr. (1855). Honduras.
 H. funcki funcki Pfr. (1849). S. Yago, New Granada.
H. funcki costaricensis A. J. W. (1905). San Jose and Santa Clara, Costa Rica.
 ?H. funcki pitalensis A. J. W. (1910). El Pital, Rio Naranjo, s. w. Costa Rica.
 H. funcki parvidens Pilsbry (1920). Juen Vinas, 3000-3300 ft., Costa Rica.
 H. zephyrina zephyrina Duclos (1833). Tampico to Nicaragua.
H. turbinata "Wieg. Menke" Pfr. (1848).
?? H. ambeliana Sowerby (1842).
? H. sinuosa Pfr. (1850). Mexico? Monstrosity?
? H. sandozi Sh. (1852). Monstrosity.
H. berendti Pfr. (1861). Vera Cruz, Mex. Excavatoangulate var. of
 Mart. (1908).
H. turbinata minima Strebel (1873). Not H. minima d'Orb. (1845).
H. zephyrina elatior "von Marten" C. and F. (1893) = higher race.
 ??H. zephyrina deppeana von Martens (1863). Oaxaca, Mex.
 H. zephyrina dientensis Pilsbry (1903). Diente, Nuevo Leon, Mex.
 H. chrysocheila chrysocheila A. Binney (1851). s. w. U. S (Tex. to N. Mex.).
 H. chrysocheila shuttleworthi von Martens (1890). Cordova, V. C, Mex.
H. chrysocheila Sh. (1852), not Binney (1851).
 H. chrysocheila vanattae Pilsbry (1909). Loj Canoas, San Luis Potosi, Mex.
Iii this group, the radula of H. zephyrina was examined. The
 radular formula is given in Table III. No cusps are present on
 the A-central (Plate III, fig. 9) ; the B-central is simply a curved,
 almost rectangular plate with spatulate crenulations on the upper
 margin. The lanceolate C-central bears one, large, rounded hook.
 The comb-lateral (Plate IV, fig. 13) is heavy and bears large,
 spatulate cusps. The accessory plate is small and has but little
 reflection of the anterior border. The marginals are large and
 quite strictly ligulate; the bases form oblique rows but the tips
 are in nearly transverse rows, at least towards the center. The
 cusps of each tip form disc-like crowns, with the cusps arranged
 transversely on each. The calcareous operculum is degenerate,
 but the horny operculum is thick and brilliantly colored red.
 This group, to my mind, represents the most complete develop-
 ment of the genus Helicina on the mainland.
29 3 alcoholic specimens; University of Michigan-Walker Expedition in South-
 ern Vera Cruz, Mexico; Hacienda Cuatotolapam, Canton Acayucan (1910).
52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Subgenus HELICIXA s. s. West Indies.
Hdicina Lamarack (1799, 1801). Type H. neritella Lam. (1799). Jamaica.
 Pitonm llus, Pitonnillus Montfort (1810). Type H. neritella Lam. (Pitonil-
lus auct.).
 ? Pachytoma Swainson (1840). Type H. occidentalis Guilding (1828).
Saint Vincent 1.
 Pachystoma auct., not Pachystoma Guilding (1828).
Euneritella A. J. W. (1905). Type (by tautonomy) H. neritella Lam.
 ?? Subglobulosa A. J. W. (1905). Type (by tautonomy) H. subglobulosa
Poey (1852) Cuba.
 ?? Festiva A. J. W. (1910). Type (by tautonomy) H. f estiva Sowerby
(1839) Haiti. Not Festivus Crotch (1872) nor Festiva Gray (group
larger than genus).
I have been able to obtain but one specimen of H. neritella
 diplocheila A. J. W. 30 The animal was almost completely destroyed
 by dermestids, but by washing it out carefully, I obtained
 examples of all of the kinds of teeth, and a few clumps with the
 centrals, comb-laterals, accessory plate, and a few of the inner
 marginals still clinging together. The centrals are not arranged
 in their natural position in the figure (Plate III, fig. 6), and the
 R-central, especially is not foreshortened as usually seen.
The markings of the R-central are peculiar. The A-central
 has a peculiar shelf-like projection, which bears three, deep-set,
 large, rounded cusps. The B and C centrals are very similar to
 those of Tenuis, but are shown from a somewhat different angle.
 The comb-lateral has a rather narrow basal plate (Plate IV, fig.
 17). The accessory plate has a small body but a large lanceolate
 appendix, and the reflected anterior portion forms a quite promi-
 nent shelf, which juts out almost at right angles to the body of
 the plate. The innermost marginals are very short and broad,
 not over one-half as long as the longest ones. All of the definitive
 marginals have sickle-shaped tips, with wings which remotely
 resemble those of the section Succincta of Oligyra, but are much
 better-developed.
In addition, I have examined H. adspersa Pfr. (1839), both the
 large, typical form and a smaller variety H. a. marmorata d'Orb.
 (1845) = //. tenuilabris Pfr. (1848) 31 . This Cuban species has
 sharper cusps on the A-central (Plate VII, fig. 37) and also on the
 comb-lateral (Plate IV, fig. 17 A). The wings on the marginals
 are more prominent than in H. neritella, and, in certain views,
10 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 104391; collected at Orange Hill, Montego
 Bay, Jamaica, by A. P. Brown. This is H. n. angulata C. B. Adams (1851),
 not H. angulata Sowerby (1842).
31 3 alcoholic specimens, sent me by John B. Henderson; from Western Cuba.
53
appear to be marked off proximad by a slight groove, so that they
 have much the appearance of large, triangular cusps. The small
 form is the one figured; it has a much smaller number of the mar-
 ginals (80 as against 106), and the comb-lateral has one more
 cusp and all are longer and narrower than in the larger form.
 This species is apparently quite closely related to H. neritella.
The operculum of this group is very similar to that of Tristramia,
 s. s. It has a heavy, reddish, horny plate, and a thin calcareous
 plate; the latter is somewhat thickened towards the columella!-
 but incomplete towards the palatal margin. Although the group
 certainly belongs with Tristramia, it is rather divergent and needs
 further study before any accurate estimate of its relationship
 can be stated. As already remarked, there are certain resemblances
 to Tamsiana, and it is possible that the two groups connect up in
 the lesser Antilles. Many of the species included in Subglobulosa
 A. J. W. and F estiva A. J. W. have the yellowish operculum, with
 the poorly-developed horny plate, which is more characteristic
 of Oligyra than of this group.
Table III. Radular Formulae in Helicina, Lucidella,
and Schasicheila.
Centrals Comb Marginals. Grand
A B C Lateral 2 3 4 5 Total Total
H.amoena 5 5 4 9-10 6 4 6 70 151
H.cinctdla 5 6-8 4 9 4 6 5 83 177
H . concentrica 5 4 5 11 1* 3+4 7 79 169
H. tamsiana appuni 4448 5 35 87 185
H.nemoralis 4 5 4 9-10 5 2 7 108 227
H.caracolla 1-2 5 4 10 3 5 8 83 177
H.r.ernesti 6 2 9-10 2 14 5 89 189
H. tenuis 6 4 7 1* 1+8 5 5 70 151
H.zephyrina 7 1 8 2* 1+7 5 5 102 215
H. neritella 3 64 7 1*2 +6 ?? many many
H.adsptrsa 3 4-5 4 9 2* 3+4 5 7 106 223
S.silacea 4 4 4 9-104 5 6 9 78 167
S.sagraiana 4 4 4 9 2* 1+6 6 8 80 171
S.ciliata 4 4 4 6 1 8(5)* 4+9 58 127
S.hidalgoana 3 4 4 6 9 6 5 46 103
L.venezuelensis. . . . 4549 7 40 91
L.lirata 2 7 6 6 5 12 62 135
L. aureola 1 7 5 9-10 2 21 20 136 283
Genus LUCIDELLA Swainson. Tropical America.
?Subgenus LINDSLEYA Chitty. Jamaica to South America.?
Lindsleya Chitty (1857). Type Stoastoma lindsleyanum C. B. Adams
 1849) Jamaica.
54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Voi. LXXIV
A number of minute, globose shells (L. venezuelensis n. sp.),
 which were collected rear Palma Sola, Estado Falcon, Venezuela
 (1920), closely resemble this Jamaican group, which originally
 was described as a genus of " Stoastomidae. " The margin of the
 aperture is entire, but quite simple, and the shell is well-perforated.
 The sculpture consists of well-marked spiral ridglets. The calcare-
 ous plate of the operculum is rather heavy, and is quite markedly
 concave externally.
On examination of the radula (1 dried specimen), I was greatly
 surprised to find it very close to that of Lucidella lirata (Plate III,
 fig. 5; Plate V, fig. 21), and totally unlike that of Stoastoma (Plate
 VI, fig. 26). It differs from that of L. lirata in the presence of
 several cusps on the upper margin of the hood-shaped A-central,
 in the lanceolate C-central without the accessory lateral cusp,
 and in the larger number of cusps (like L. aureola) on the comb-
 lateral. It is the smallest Helicinid radula that I have examined.
On account of the very similar shell-characters, it is placed
 tentatively in the subgenus Lindsleya, which is transferred to the
 genus Lucidella. If the shell-characters are any key to their re-
 lationship, I suspect that all of the species of this group and part
 of those in Metcalfeia belong here, as they do not possess the lip
 expansion and upper sinus, characteristic of true Stoastoma. This
 would restrict the latter genus to Jamaica, as S. haitianum Weinland
 and S. domingensis Vanatta from Haiti, and S. portoricense Pfr.
 from Porto Rico, lack these typical shell characters of Stoastoma
 pisum C. B. Adams (1849). The whole Stoastoma-problem needs
 reinvestigation, as practically none of the species have been figured,
 and many are impossible to identify from the descriptions.
The radula and the shell of L. venezuelensis n. sp. will be more
 completely described and figured in a future paper. The radular
 formula is given in Table III.
Subgenus POENIA H. and A. Adams. Tropical America.
Poenia H. and A. Adams (1856). Type (Fischer) H. unidentata Pfr.
(1849). Guatemala.
 Perenna Guppy (1867). Type H. (Perenna) lamellosa Guppy (1867).
 Isle Trinidad.
 L. lirata (Pfr.). (1847). Yucatan. (Mexico to Venezuela).
 //. unt'dcntalii Pfr. (1N49). Honduras.
 //. rusticetta Morelet (1849). Carmen Island, Yucatan.
 ? //. semialriata Sowerby (1866). Boca del Toro, Chiriqui, Panama
 (v. Mart. 1890).
 L. pilsbryi Clapp (1914). Swan Island, Bay of Honduras.
 L. tantilla (Pilsbry) (1902). Florida, U. S. (Cuba, Ramsden).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55
The radula of L. Virata is figured (Plate III, fig. 5; Plate V, fig. 21
 21), and the formula is given in Table III. The A-lateral is hood-
 shaped, with the opening inwards; its shape is perhaps better
 shown in the tilted A-lateral shown beneath the row of teeth of
 Lucidella aureola (Plate III, fig: 4). This "hood" ends distad
 with a curved hook, while there is also a stout point on the outer
 margin. It bears no true cusps. The B-central has a cuspless
 space on the outer tip, which fits over the C-central. The last is
 very long and slender, and bears a small cusp on the outer margin,
 besides the 4 terminal ones. The comb-lateral has a peculiar
 saddle-shaped expansion of the cusp-bearing border. The accessory-
 plate is long, but very thin and transparent; it just touches the
 outer end of the comb-lateral. This gives the radula a peculiar
 appearance, as the comb-lateral appears to be set off from, the inner
 ends of the marginals by a transparent border. The entire radula
 is so small as to require an oil-immersion lens for its thorough ex-
 amination. Its total width is less than that of a single T-lateral of
 Viana regina.
Subgenus LUCIDELLA s. s. Jamaica; Haiti? Cuba?
Lucidella Swainson (1840). Type Helix aureola Ferussac (1822). Jamaica.
 ? Prosopis Weinland (1862). Type (monotype) P. sulcata Weinland
 (1862). Haiti. 33 Not Prosopis Fabricius (1804).
The radula of the type species 34 has been examined. It is figured
 from an example that had two A-centrals (Plate III, fig. 4; Plate
 V, fig. 22); the inner one corresponds more to the type found in
 the other two, normal radulae. Below the row of centrals in the
 normal position, a single inner A-central is shown in a slightly
 tilted position, so as to give a better idea of the shape. This
 radula differs from that of L. lirata mainly by the absence of the
 upper point on the A-central, by the broader C-central, with
 especially well-marked cusps, and by the greater number of cusps
 on the comb-lateral. The marginals are more numerous than in
 any other species of Helicinidae examined.
Genus SCHASICHEILA Sh. Mexico; western Cuba; Bahamas?
 Subgenus EMODA H. and A. Adams. Western Cuba.
32 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 72171; collected in Garden of Juarez
 Institute, San Juan Bautista, Tabasco, Mex., by J. N. Rovirosa.
33 This group may be valid, but its name is certainly not.
34 3 alcoholic specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 104533; collected in Jamaica, by A. P.
56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Emoda H. and A. Adams. Type (now chosen) H. silacea Morelet
 (1849). Cuba. 35
In this group the radulae of the type species 36 , S. sagraiana
 (d. Orbigny) (1845) 37 , and S. ciliata (Poey) (1852) 38 were examined.
 The radular formulae of all three are included in Table III, but
 only the first is figured (Plate IV, fig. 16; Plate V, fig. 19).
The centrals are Alcadia-like as are those of Schasicheila s. s.
 The A-central has a peculiar outer plate, which fits under the
 C-central. The accessory plate is comparatively smaller than in
 any of the preceding groups, but is heavy and has a strong lobe
 for clasping the end of the comb-lateral. The latter is large and
 heavy, with spatulate cusps, and a heavy, squarish base. There
 are fewer cusps (6) in S. ciliata than in the other two species.
 The inner marginals are bicuspid. In sagraiana and silacea, the
 inner 4 or 5 have only two functional cusps, while in ciliata from
 6 to 7 are functionally bicuspid. The difference between this
 statement and the formulae, as given in Table III, is due to a small
 vestigial tooth that appears quite variable in its occurrence. The
 marginals are peculiarly heavy and wooden, like those of Schasi-
 chelia s. s., and are not very numerous for such large shells. S.
 ciliata has a smaller number of marginals than the other two.
The shells of this group are amongst the largest and heaviest
 of the entire family. In external appearance, they resemble those
 of Analcadia, but the radula is distinctly Schasicheila-like, as is
 also the sculpture of such species as S. ciliata. The latter probably
 belongs in a different section than do the other two species. The
 close relationship between Emoda and Schasicheila s. s. presents
 additional evidence for the former land connection between Cuba
 and Yucatan.
Subgenus SCHASICHEILA s. s. Mexico, Guatemala.
Schasicheila Shuttleworth (1852). Type (Fischer) S. nicoleti Sh.
 (1852). Mexico.
Schasichila and Schazicheila auct.
 S. alata (" Menke"Pfr.). (1848). Cordova, Mexico.
S. pannucea Sowerby (1866), non Morelet.
 S. fragilis Pilsbry (1899). Diente, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
35 As this group is used by Wagner (1907) in an emended sense, it was thought
 best to choose a type from those of the species of H. and A. Adams, which are
 also included by Wagner.
36 2 alcoholic specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 110833; collected at Tabajo, Yunquede,
Baracoa, Cuba, by Chas. T. Ramsden.
37 3 alcoholic specimens; sent me by John B. Henderson; from western Cuba.
 38 1 mounted slide from the collection of A. N. S. P.; made by A. P. Brown.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57
S. hidalgoana Ball (1897). Encarnacion, Hidalgo, Mex. ; near Victoria, Tarn., Mex.
S. hinkleyi Pilsbry (1919). Chama, Guatemala.
???S. minima "Pfr. " Strebel (1873). Figure only, unidentifiable.
S. minuscula (Pfr.) (1859). Mexico.
S. miniuscula auct.
 S. nicoleti Shuttleworth (1852). Cordova, Mexico.
S. palmeri Dall (1905). Alvarez Mts., San Luis Potosi; Omealca, V. C, Mex.
 S. pannucea (Morelet) (1849). Peten, Guatemala.
H. alata Adams (1856), not Pfr.
 ?S. pannucea misantlensis Strebel (1873). Misantla, V. C, Mex.
 ?S. pilsbryi A. J. Wagner (1910). Mexico, Guatemala.
 S. vanattai Pilsbry (1899). Diente, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
 S. vanattai tricostata Pilsbry (1903). Near Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mex.
 S. xanthia Pilsbry (1909). Los Canoas, San Luis Potosi, Mex.
The radula of S. hidalgoana 39 is figured (Plate V, figs. 18 and 20).
 The centrals are somewhat Alcadia-like; the B-central has an outer
 projection that fits under the C-central. The comb-lateral is
 large and heavy and has a squarish base, -but the outer triangular
 projection is so thin and weak as to be difficult to see. The accessory
 plate is rather small and not very heavy. The inner 9 marginals
 are bicuspid and resemble those of Emoda, although the blades are
 considerably longer and more close-ranked than in that group.
 The small number (46) is striking in a shell as large as the present
 species.
The distinctive shell characters were noted early, and are so
 peculiar as to probably warrant the generic separation of this
 group and Emoda, but the writer did not wish to erect the latter
 into a genus until a more thorough study of the West Indian forms
 had been made. The species from the mainland of North America,
 given above, constitute simply an alphabetic list of the names
 that have been proposed.
Genus STOASTOMA Adams. Jamaica.
Stoastoma C. B. Adams (18-19). Type S. pisum C. B. Adams (1849).
Jamaica.
 Hemicyclostoma "C. B. Adams" Pfr. (1865). Type S. pisum.
 ? Lewisia Chitty (1857). Type S. philippianum C. B. Adams (1850).
 ? Wilkinsonia Chitty (1857) Type S. wilkinsoniae C. B. Adams (1849).
 ? Fadyenia Chitty (1857). Type S. fadyenianum C. B. Adams (1849).
 ? Metcalfeia Chitty (1857). Type 5. chittya?ium C. B. Adams (1849).
 ? Petiiia Chitty (1857). Type S. petitianum C. B. Adams (1849).
 ?? Lindsleya Chitty (1857). Type S. lindsleyanum C. B. Adams (1849). 40
 ? Blandia Chitty (1857). Type S. blandianum C. B. Adams (1849).
The radula of the type species has already been figured by Pilsbry
39 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 85919; collected in canon 4 miles west of
 Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico, by S. N. Rhoads (1903).
40 The second name in this list is an exact synonym of Stoastoma ; the remainder
 may be distinct. I have already tentatively included Lindsleya under Luciddla.
58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
(1910), and that of another specimen 41 is given here (Plate VI, fig.
 26). As Pilsbry has already pointed out, this radula is truly
 helicinid in character. Although possessing certain marked, indi-
 vidual peculiarities, in others it forms a connecting link between the
 Vianinae and the Helicininae.
The A-central is heavy and has a single, large, outer hook
 which makes it superficially resemble that of Lucidella. The,
 B-central has three heavy cusps and somewhat resembles that of
 the more primitive species of Eutrochatella. The comb-lateral
 has only 3 large cusps, and the heavy outer process is more like
 that of the Vianinae than like any of the preceding genera. Never-
 theless, in general shape it is distinct, and more closely related
 to the Helicininae. The accessory plate is small and heavy and has
 an inner projection which fits behind the outer end of the comb-
 lateral. The anterior edge is slightly reflected and must act as a
 rather efficient brace to the comb-lateral. The inner 14 marginals
 are unicuspid, although the base is broad, as in all of the
 Helicinidae.
While the description of the radula of the type species throws
 light on the relationships of the genus s. s., the other groups need
 examination. As pointed out under Lucidella, it is very probable
 that other distantly related small species have been included in
 the genus, as a whole. Since Chitty's description of the many
 species and "genera", the group seems to have received very little
 attention.
Table IV. Radular Formulae in Stoastoma, Eutrochatella,
Viana, and Calybium.
Centrals. Comb Marginals Grand
ABC Lateral 123 Total Total
S. visum 13 4 3 14 6 53 117
E.erythraea 3 3 4 8-9 10 2 3 46 103
E.mestrei 3 3 4 8 17 5 64 139
E.jugulata 3 3 4 10 13 58 127
E.chrysochasma 3 3 4 7-9 12-14 (Troschel) 50+ 111 +
E. s. politula 3 3 3-4 4-5 13 5 45 101
E.pyramidalis 3 3 4 5 11 44 99
/:. rupestris 3 2-3 14 5 35 81
E. sloanii 1 20 10 56 123
E.remota 1 24 80 171
41 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 15236; collected in Garrett's Woods, near
 Mandeville, Jamaica, by A. P. Brown (1910).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59
A B C Lateral 12 3 Total Total
E. a. columellaris 1 2 26 71 153
E. chrysostoma 0? (Troschel)
E.pulchella 1 40 62 135
E.tankervillii 0? 90+? (Troschel) 90+ 191 +
E. stellate 2 39 104 219
E.torrei 2 43 111 233
V. regina 1 25 5 14 100 211
C.mouhoti 1 10 1 28 67
Genus EUTROCHATELLA Fisher. West Indies; Guatemala; Venezuela???
Subgenus TROSCHELVIANA new subgenus. Western Cuba.
 Type H. erythraea "Wright" Sowerby (1866).
 Section Tboschelviana s. s. Western Cuba.
In this section the radulae of the type species 42 , E. mestrei 43 ,
 and E. jugulata 44 have been examined. In addition, the radula
 of E. chrysochasma has been described and figured by Troschel
 (1856-63). As he pointed out clearly the distinctness of this group,
 which is almost worthy of generic separation, it is but fitting that
 it bear his name. The radula of E. erythraea is figured here (Plate
VI, fig. 27) and the formulae of all four species are included in Table
 IV.
The paired centrals of these species have large and well-developed
 cusps: 3 on each A and B central and 4 on the C-central. The T-
 lateral, although quite similar in shape to that in the rest of the
 genus, bears a number of well-marked cusps on its inner edge. The
 accessory plate bears a stout hook, which fits over the inner branch
 of the stalk to the T-lateral. The unicuspid marginals are not
 very numerous, and bear long, sharp blades.
The shells of the species in this group are rather small, and are
 more elevated than in any other helicinid group. They lack the
 distinct spiral sculpture of the rest of the genus Eutrochatella.
 From these shell characters, I think that the following species
 should be included in this group:
E. alboviridis ("Wright" Pfr.) (1864).
??E. trochulina (d'Orbigny) (1845) Cuba. (Not the Haitian citations).
E. erythraea ("Wright" Sowerby) (1866). Type species.
H. rubella "Wright" Pfr. (1864), not of Green (1832).
E. rubella citrinocallossa A. J. Wagner (1908).
 E. jugulata (Poey) (1856).
 E. chrysochasma chrysochasma (Poey) (1853).
42 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 14868; from Cuba; collected by Wright,
43 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 98798; Mogotes de la Cerro de Cobras,
 Cuba; collected by J. B. Henderson (1909).
41 2 alcoholic specimens; from Western Cuba; sent me by J. B. Henderson.
60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
E. chrysochasma jucunda ("Gund." Pfr.) (1863).
??E. chrysochasma hernandezi "Wright" A. J. Waguer (1908).
E. mestrei Arango (1878).
Section Cubaviana new section. W. Cuba.
 Type //. politula Poey (1852). Santa Cruz, Cuba.
The radula of the type of this section has been described and
 figured by Troschel (1856-63). I have re-examined it 45 and also
 E. pyramidalis 4 *; the T-lateral of the former figured (Plate VI,
 fig. 33). The radular formulae of both species are given in Table
The centrals of this section are not quite so definitely cusped as
 in the preceding group, but are very similar. The T-central
 has only a few scallops and points near the outer edge of the margin.
 The A-plate, not shown by Troschel, is very similar to that in
 Troschelviana s. s.
The shells of this section are not quite so elevated as in the
preceding group, but are more nearly conical in shape. They
agree with it in the poor development of the spiral sculpture. I
think that probably the following species belong here:
E. methfesseli (Pfr.) (1862).
E. straminea straminea (Morelet) (1851).
H. exacuta Poey (1852).
 E. straminea rubromarginata ("Gund." Poey) (1856).
 E. straminea festa (" Gund. "Sowerby) (1866).
 E. straminae nodae (Arango) (1862).
 E. straminea politula (Poey) (1852). Type.
 E. fuscula ("Gund. "Pfr.) (1863).
 E. cisnerosi (Arango) (1878).
 E. wrighti wrighti (Pfr.) (1863).
 ??E. wrighti xanthacme A. J. Wagner (1911).
 E. elongata (d'Orbigny) (1845).
 E. pyramidalis pyramidalis (Sowerby) (1842).
 E. pyramidalis percarinata A. J. Wagner (1908).
//. arnica d'Orbigny (1845), not Pfr. (1839).
 ??E. scopulorum (Morelet) (1849). Isle of Pines.
//. luteopunctata Poey (1852).
H. luteoapicata Poey (1854).
Subgenus PYRGODOMUS C. and E. Cuba to Guatemala; Bahamas?
Pyrgodomus Crosse and Fischer (1893). Type (monotype) H. chryseis
Tristram (1861). Guatemala.
 Artecallosa A. J. Wagner (1908). Type (now chosen, as used as Pyrgodomus)
H. chryseis Tristram (1861). Guatemala.
 ? Callida A. J. Wagner (1908). Type (by tautonomy) H. calida Wein-
land (1862) (E. callida A. J. W.). Not Callida "Dejean" Leconte
(1859). 47
45 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 15170; Rangel, Cuba.
16 3 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 14885; southwestern Cuba.
47 This group may belong to Eutrochatella s. s., but the size of the shell and its
 shape look more like this subgenus. I do not think the name can be used, altho
 L'alh.ida Dejean (1825) appears to be the original spelling of the genus in Cole-
 optera
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61
E. microdina microdina (Morelet) (1851). Vera Paz, Guatemala.
E. microdina chryseis (Tristram) (1861). Guatemala (may be a sex-form).
E. simpsoni Ancey (1886). Utilla Island, Bay of Honduras. 48
Of this subgenus, I have only been able to examine E. rupestris
 (Pfr.) (1839) 49 , but this species agrees quite well in shell characters
 with the typical, mainland species. The A-central has no definite
 cusps, altho its margin is slightly wavy. The B-central has three
 rather irregular cusps. The C-central has 2 or 3 points (Plate
 VI, fig. 28). The T-lateral has no definite cusps on the margin,
 but the horny thickenings of the umbrella-shaped cutting-edge
 show four or five irregular, but sharply marked folds, which gives
 the tooth a wavy appearance under certain lights. A. J. Wagner
 has described the shell characters of the group, although I doubt
 the inclusion of some of the larger species.
Subgenus PRIOTROCHATELSA Fischer. Isle of Pines.
Prictrochatella Fischer (1893). Type H. constellate Morelet (1847). Isle
 of Pines.
In this subgenus, the radulae of E. stellata 50 and E. torrei 51 have
 been examined. The radular formulae of both are given in Table
 IV, and that of the former is figured (Plate VI, fig. 30). The
 radula of this subgenus is practically the same as in Eutrochatetta
 s. s., except that the R-central is broadly elliptical, instead of
 circular. A. J. Wagner indicates this as a primitive group, but I
 regard it as among the most highly specialized forms in the whole
 subfamily.
The operculum is superficially something like that of Geotro-
 chatella, but in Priotrochatella the calcareous plate is dominant,
 while in the eastern group the horny plate is best-developed. The
 calcareous portion of the operculum of Priotrochatella is similar
 in texture to that of Eutrochatella s. s., and is not spiral but practi-
 cally linear. The nucleus, which is spiral as throughout the family,
 is quite near the columellar margin, and the growth-lines mainly
 show externad. I regard it as simply a specialized condition of
 the Eutrochatella-operculum, due to the shape of the aperture.
48 In addition, H. exigua Pfr. (1849), from Honduras (Dyson), may possibly
 belong here, but it is unrecognizable from description.
49 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 15081; collected in Cuba by Poey.
60 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 118935; Sierra de Caballos, 1. of Pines
 .(W. F. Clapp).
51 1 dried specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 15083; Isle of Pines (R. Arango). Wm. F.
 Clapp (1918) has described and figured the radulae of the three species of this
 genus.
62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Growth has been retarded towards the columellar wall and accentu-
 ated towards the palatal margin. This idea is substantiated by
 the crushed and thickened growth-lamellae along the basal and
 columellar margins. A. J. Wagner's figures (1905, 1907) are very
 diagrammatic; that of Fischer (1893), although somewhat vague,
 shows the fundamental structure much better. The separation of
 this group from Eutrochatella s. s., even as a subgenus, is only
 justifiable on the grounds of the peculiar shell and opercular
 characters.
Subgenus EUTROCHATELLA s. s. West Indies; Venezuela???
 Section Ustronia A. J. W. Cuba.
 Uslronia A. J. Wagner (1908). Type (now chosen) H. sloanii d'Orbigny
 (1845). Cuba. (=H. sloanei A. J. W. and authors, not of d'Orbigny).
The radula of the type species has been figured and described
by Troschel (1856-63). I have re-examined this species, 52 and have
also studied E. acuminata columellaris 53 and E. remota. 5i I am
unable to name any definite characters of the radula that will
separate this group from the next. It appears to have a smaller
number of unicuspid marginals than does Eutrochatella s. s. The
specimen of E. acuminata columellaris has a minute, but very
sharp-pointed cusp at the inner end of the margin of the B-central.
Section Excavata A. J. Wagner. Cuba, Haiti, Jamaica.
 Excavata A. J. Wagner (1907). Type (by tautonomy) H. excavata Pfr.
 (1855). Haiti.
In this section the radula of E. chrysostoma ("Sh." Pfr.) (1850)
 has been described and figured by Troschel (1856-63).
Section Eutrochatella s. s. Jamaica.
 Ampullina Blainville (1825). Not Saint-Fond (1803) etc. Type A.
striata Blainville (1825).
 Trochatella Swainson (1840). Type H. pulchella Gray (1825). Jamaica.
Not Trochatella Lesson (1830).
 Eutrochatella Fischer (1885). Type H. pulchella Gray.
 Granifera A. J. Wagner (1907). Type H. pulchella Gray.
In this section the radula of the type species of the genus 55
has been examined and is figured (Plate VI, figs. 31 and 32).
Troschel (1856-63) has described and figured that of E. tankervillii
(Gray) (1825). His statement that all of the marginals are unicuspid
52 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 93661; collected near Havana, Cuba, by
 C. F. Baker.
' 3 1 alcoholic specimen; sent me by J. B. Henderson; western Cuba.
A 1 alcoholic specimen; sent me by H. B. Henderson; western Cuba.
55 1 alcoholic specimen; A. N. S. P. no. 101221; collected near Mandeville.
 Jamaica, by A. P. Brown (1910), and 1 slide, in the collection of the A. N. S. P
 mounted by A. P. Brown.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63
is doubtless erroneous. However, Eutrochatella does have a larger
 number of unicuspid marginals than does Ustronia, and in this
 features agrees better with Priotrochatella. Its separation from
 Excavata seems justifiable on the basis of the heavier sculpture of
 the shell in this typical section.
Genus VIANA. H. and A. Adams. Cuba.
Viana H. and A. Adams (March, 1856). Type H. regina Morelet (1849).
 Hapata Gray (Nov., 1856). Type H. regina Morelet.
 Rhynchocheila Shuttleworth (1878). Type H. regina Morelet.
In this genus, through the kindness of Mr. J. B. Henderson, I
 have been able to examine the type species 56 . Before receiving his
 material, the laterals alone of V. regina subunguiculata (Poey)
 were obtained by washing out dermestid feces from an old shell.
 V. regina is figured (Plate VII, figs. 34, 35, 36).
The paired centrals have no definite cusps, although there is a
 rounded hook on the C-central. The R-central is shield-shaped with
 two scallops on each side, a very well-marked triangular cusp, and a
 rounded base. The A-central is proportionalely very large, while
 the B and C centrals are much smaller, and appear to be rather
 weak, as they are easily crushed in mounting the specimen, The
 T-laterals are exceptionally large (.5 mm. in diameter) ; each is
 fully as large as the whole central area (7 teeth). The stalk or
 base is proportionately very short and stout, while the reflecteb
 portion is semicircular (Plate VII, fig. 36 gives anterior view) and
 very large. It is less dome-shaped than in Eutrochatella. The
 accessory plate is small and, when united is almost completely
 hidden by the T-lateral. The unicuspid marginals are more broad-
 ly rounded at the tips than are those of Eutrochatella and the
 inner, multicuspid ones are not as deeply cleft.
In addition the shell-characters are peculiar. Especially note-
 worthy is the definite sinus on the outer lip of the aperture of the
 male. Altogether, it seems that the generic separation of this
 group is justifiable on natural grounds. In addition, there is a
 practical reason. Viana (and also its two synonyms) is prior to
 Eutrochatella Fischer, and would become the generic name of the
 entire group if the two were combined. The resemblance of Fischer's
 term to the original, preoccupied name, Trochatella, and its wide
 acceptance, would make this peculiarly unfortunate.
56 2 alcoholic specimens; Cuba from collection of J. B. Henderson.
64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Genus CALYBIUM Morelet. Indo-China.
 Subgenus CALYBIUM s. s.
 Calybium Morelet (1891). Type (monotype) C. massiei Morelet (1891).
Subgenus GEOTROCHATELLA P. Fischer.
 Geotrochatella P. Fischer (1891). Type (now chosen) H. mouhoti Pfr. (1862).
In this group the radula of the type species C. mouhoti (Pfr.) 57
 has been examined and is figured (Plate VI, fig. 29). It is startlingly
 like that of Viana regina, but has several, rather important dif-
 ferences. The A-central is not especially enlarged, as compared
 to the two outer, paired centrals. The unicuspid marginals are
 much broader, and the number of marginals is the smallest observed
 (28), which is remarkable when one considers that the tiny E.
 rupestris has 35. As the broad, outer marginals were observed in
 both radulae of C. mouhoti, it does not seem possible that the
 count is very erroneous.
With the depressed shell, Geotrochatella has a linear operculum,
 somewhat similar in shape to that of Priotrochatella. However,
 the horny plate of the operculum in the former group is well-
 developed, while the calcareous plate is extremely thin. The
 spiral nucelus is near the columellar margin. The horny plate has
 a thickening, which runs transversely across the inner side; when
 examined under the microscope, this thickening is seen to consist
 of lamellae, which project out a considerable angle to the rest of
 the plate. As the margin is not thickened, as is the calcareous
 plate of Priotrochatella, it appears as if the growth-stress, due to
 the shape of the aperture, finds expression in this lamellar thicken-
 ing across the middle of the plate. Thus the opercula of Priotro-
 chatella and Geotrochatella, although superficially similar, are fund
 mentally different, both in texture and arrangement of the growth
 lamellae. For this reason and on account of the divergence of the
 radulae, it seems that the relationship between these two groups
 is not as close as has often been stated. They probably represent
 parallel development in two rather distantly related stocks. The
 dominance of the horny operculum also helps to separate this
 group from Viana, which, it appears to me, is more probably its
 closest relative in the West Indies.
A. J. Wagner included Geotrochatella, Calybium and Priotrochatella
 in his Pseudotraochatellinae. This "subfamily," altho based on
 opercular characters, had for its type genus Pseudotrochatella
67 2 dried specimens; A. N. S. P. no. 66060; collected at Luang-Prabang, Laos,
 by Ph. Dautzenberg. (1895)-
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65
Nevil (1881) a subfossil form of which the operculum was unknown.
 The peculiar spiral sculpture of the embryonic shell of Pseudo-
 trochatella, and its habitat, the Island of Mauritius, render its
 reference to the Helicinidae extremely dubious, at least until the
 operculum is known.
In conclusion, it may be stated that the position of the spiral
 nucleus of the operculum, and the arrangement of the growth-
 lamellae, furnish excellent characters for the separation of the
 minor groups. The relative dominance of the horny and calcareous
 plate, altho somewhat variable, especially with age, are of value,
 even in the separation of genera. On the other hand, the opercular
 characters are not of much value in the determination of the
 relationship between genera, and certainly cannot be used for the
 division of the Helicinidae into subfamilies.
Description of Plates III  VII.
On account of the considerable difference in size, the capituliform complexes
 are usually shown here with a different magnification than are the centrals and
 marginals of the same species. In addition, it was found necessary to show the
 radulae of different species with different degrees of magnification. For these
 reasons, the centrals and marginals of each species are in a group by themselves,
 while the capituliform complex is shown separately, usually with less mag-
 nification.
In the following descriptions, the magnification is given as 1, 2, 3, 5 or 6 times
 (diameters). This means that the drawing with the least magnification is taken
 as a standard, and the enlargement of the others is expressed in proportions to
 the nearest integer, so as to facilitate their rapid comparison, by the use of a
 simple fraction. The accurate scale in microns (^ = .001 mm.)is given with each
 set of figures under the same magnification. Each scale pertains to the figures
 between it and the next scale above, and to those below in case no other scale is
 given. All of the drawings were made with the aid of the camera lucida. The
 magnification under which the drawings were first made is as follows: XI = 248
 diameters; X2 is a camera lucida reduction from X3; X3 = 705 diameters; X5
 = 1180 diameters; X6 = 1490 diameters.
All of the teeth in the series shown are those from the right side. As the central
 groups are all arranged in the same order, with the R-central at the left hand of
 the sheet, followed by the A, B and C centrals in order named, they are not
 specially numbered. The marginals are numbered as they occur in the transverse
 row, from the center out. The figures themselves are numbered separately at
 the edge of the plate. All of the teeth, including the tips of the marginals, are
 oriented into the most common position, although this is necessarily often only
 approximate.
 Plate III.  Hendersonia, Oligyra, Lucidella and Helicina. Centrals and Marginals.
Fig. 1  Hendersonia occulta. Centrals and tips of lrst, 8th and 13th marginals
(x5).
 Fig. 2  Oligyra orbiculata. Centrals (x5). Compare fig. 1 for marginals.
 Fig. 3  Oligyra (Succincta) flavida streoeli. Centrals and tips of 1st, 5th,
and 12th marginals (x5).
 Fig. 4  Lucidella aureola. Centrals and tips of 1st, 6th and 40th marginals
(x6) (A-central shown below in tilted position).
06 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXX1V
Fig. 5  Lucidella (Poenia) lirala. Centrals (x6). Compare 4 for marginals.
Fig. 6 Helicina neritella. Centrals (in row instead of in the more common
 position); tip and inner view of 4th marginal; a, b, c: tips of
 marginals further out (exact position unknown); d: edge view
 of distal end of a marginal to show sickle-shaped tip. (x3).
Fig. 7  Helicina (Tenuis) tenuis. Centrals and tips of 1st, 5th, and 12th
 marginals (x3).
Fig. 8  Helicina (Oxyrhombus) amoena. Centrals and tips of 1st, 3rd and
 9th marginals (x3).
Fig. 9  Helicina (Tristramia) zephyrina. Centrals and tips of 1st, 3rd,
 6th and 12th marginals; outer view of 2nd; inner view of 7th;
 edge view of distal end of 17th ;and edge view of proximal
 end of 8th to show U-shape of base. (x3)
Plate IV.  Hcndersonia, Oligyra, Helicina and Schasicheila. Capituliform
 Complexes.
Fig. 10  Hcndersonia occulta. Comb-lateral and accessory plate separated
 (x3).
Fig. 11  Oligyra orbiculata. Comb-lateral and accessory plate separated. (x3).
Fig. 12  Oligyra (Succincta) flavida strebeli. Comb-lateral and accessory
 plate united (x3).
Fig. 13  Helicina (Tristramia) zephyrina. Comb-lateral and inner end of
 accessory plate united (x3).
Fig. 14  Helicina (Tenuis) tenuis. Comb-lateral and accessory plate separa-
 ted (x3).
Fig. 15  Helicina (Oxyrhombus) amoena. Comb-lateral and accessory plate
 separated (x3).
Fig. 16  Schasicheila (Emoda) silacea. Comb-lateral and accessory plate
Fig. 17  Helicina neritella. Comb-lateral and accessory plate separated. (x3)
 a. cusp-bearing portion of comb-lateral, b. handle or base of
 comb-lateral, c. triangular outer projection of comb-lateral;
 this forms a support for: d. continuation of cusp-bearing
 portion, e. depression and thinning of comb-lateral (shown by
 dotted lines) ; on opposite side from that viewed. This is for the
 reception of the base of the comb-lateral next anteriad (above
 in figures), f. Portion of accessory plate which fits under the
 triangular projection of the comb-lateral (c). g. lanceolate
 appendix of the accessory plate, h. reflected portion, which
 invests the outer end of(d). x. termination of each piece
 (when united in natural position) marked on the other.
17A  Helicina adspersa. Comb-lateral and accessory plate, slightly separat-
 ed (x3).
Plate V.  Schasicheila, Lucidella, Aphanoconia, and Oligyra. Radulae.
Fig. 18  Schasicheila hidalgoana. Centrals and tips of 1st, 4th, 12th and
21rst marginals. (x5).
 Fig. 19  Schasicheila (Emoda) silacea. Centrals and tips of 1st, 4th, and
12th marginals (x3).
 Fig. 20 -Schasicheila hidalgoana. Capituliform complex united (x3).
 Fig. 21  Lucidella (Poenia) lirala. Capituliform complex united (xO).
 Fig. 22  Lucidella aureola. Capituliform complex united (x6).
 Fig. 23  Aphanoconia (Sphaerocouia)v erecunda. Central sand tip of 1st
marginal (x5). Comb-lateral and accessory plate separated
 lig. 24  Oligyra (Succinta) oweniana coccinostoma. Centrals and tips
of 1st, 3rd, 7th, and 12th marginals, and edge view of distal
end of 4th to show wings (x5). Comb-lateral and accessory
plate separated (x3).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 67
Fig. 25  Oligyra (Alcadia) palliata. Centrals and tips of 1st, 3rd, and 15th
 marginals (x5). Comb-lateral and accessory plate separated
Plate VI. S'oasloma, Eutrochal Ha, and Calybium. Radulae.
Fig. 26  Stoastoma pisum. Centrals, and 1st and 11th marginals, and tip
 of 18th; comb-lateral and accessory plate separated (x5).
Fig. 27  Eutrochatclla (Troschelviana) erythraea. Centrals, and tips of 1st.
 5th, and 17th marginals; T-lateral and accessory plate separa-
 ted (x5).
Fig. 28  Eutrochatclla (Pyrgodomus) rupestris. Centrals; T-lateral and
 accessory plate separated (x5). For marginals, see fig. 27.
Fig. 29  Calybium (Geotrochakila) mouhoti. Centrals and tips of 1st, 5th,
 11th and 12th marginals; T-lateral and accessory plate (below)
Fig. 30  Eutrochatclla (PriotrochateUa) stellata. Centrals and tips of 1st, 5th,
 10th, 40th and 50th marginals; T-lateral and accessory plate
 united (x3).
Fig. 31  Eutrochatella pulchella. Centrals (x3). See 30 for marginals.
Fig. 32  Eutrochatclla pulchella. T-lateral and accessory plate united (xl+).
Fig. 33  Eutrochatclla (Cubaviana) politula. T-lateral and accessory plate
Plate VII. Viana and Helicina.
Fig. 34  Viana regina. Centrals, capituliform complex and separated acces-
 sory plate (xl+).
Fig. 35  Viana regina. Centrals, and tips of 1st, 10th, 16th, 26th, and
 30th marginals (x3).
Fig. 36  Viana regina subunguiculata. Anterior view of T-lateral, to show
 outline of reflected portion (xj^).
Fig. 37  Helicina ads per sa (small form mar morula) . Centrals, 2nd marginal
 and edge of 4th marginal (x5).
NOTES ON THE MOLLUSKS OF THE COLORADO DESERT, I.
By S. Stillman Berry.
1 .  INTRODUCTION.
Topographically, geologically, and biologically, the Colorado
 Desert is unique among all the very diverse natural areas of the
 state of California, only its sister desert to the north, the Mojave,
 affording a partial parallel. It is likewise one of the most interest-
 ing of these areas. Nearly every wanderer who has been fated to
 enter its portals, as even now the present writer, seems to have
 felt it incumbent upon him to add his mite to the printed record,
 with the result that an extensive literature of the region is already
 in existence, and grows apace. Nevertheless, and in face of the
 fact, this is still in many respects a little known country. 1
1 In addition to the titles cited in the bibliography, there are a number of
 works not dealing with the Mollusca which, nevertheless, have such important
 bearing toward an understanding of the desert and its bionomics, that it seems
 worth while to include a brief list of a few which have been found particularly
 helpful in this manner.
 Abhams, L.
:10. A phytogeographic and fcaxonomic study of the southern California
 trees and shrubs. Bulletin New York Botanical Garden, v. (>, p. 300- 85,
 pi. A-J, 1910.
:15. The deserts and desert flora of the west. Nature and Science on
 the Pacific Coast, p. 168-176, pi. 24, San Francisco. 1915.
 Atsatt, Sarah M.
:13. The reptiles of the San Jacinto area of southern California. Univer-
 sity California Publications, Zoology, v. 12, p. 31-50, November, 1913.
 Bryant, H. C.
:11. The horned lizards of California and Nevada of the genera Phry-
 nosoma and Anota. University California Publications, Zoology, v. 9, p.
 1-84, text fig. A-B, pi. 1-9, December, 1911.
 Grinnell, J.
:13. A distributional list of the mammals of California. Proceedings
 California Academy Sciences, (4), v. 3, p. 265-390, pi. 15-16, 1913.
:14. An account of the mammals and birds of the Lower Colorado
 Valley with especial reference to the distributional problems presented.
 University California Publications, Zoology, v. 12, p. 51-294, text fig.
 A-I, pi. 3-13, March, 1914.
:15. A distributional list of the birds of California. Pacific Coast
(69)
70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXVI
Among major groups of the fauna, this statement is particularly
 true concerning the Mollusca. The very name "desert" seems to
 imply a terrain ill suited for these soft-bodied, cool-blooded animals;
 and it has been only a few years since that we began to realize
 that aridity, far from prohibiting life of this sort, actually has
 seemed in many instances to tend directly toward an increase in
 the variety and richness of the fauna. Whether this would be
 true in that classical type of desert which consists only of long
Avifauna, no. 11, p. 1-217, pi. 1-3, 1915.
:15a. The vertebrate fauna of the Pacific Coast. Nature and Science
 on the Pacific Coast, p. 104-114, pi. 12-13, San Francisco, 1915.
GRINNELL, J., & S\VARTH, H. S.
:13. An account of the birds and mammals of the San Jacinto area of
 southern California with remarks upon the behaviour of geographic races
 on the margins of their habitats. University California Publications,
 Zoology, v. 10, p. 197-406, text fig. 1-3, pi. 6-10", October, 1913.
 Grinnell, J., and Camp, C. L.
:17. A distributional list of the amphibians and reptiles of California.
 University California Publications, Zoology, v. 17, p. 127-208, text fig.
 1-14, July, 1917.
 Hall, H. M.
:02. A botanical survey of San Jacinto Mountain. University Cali-
 fornia Publications, Botany, v. 1, p. 1-140, pi. 1-14, June, 1902.
 Hall, H. M. & Grinnell, J.
:19. Life-zone indicators in California. Proceedings California Academy
 Sciences, (4), v. 9, p. 37-67, June, 1919.
 MacDougal, D. T., et al.
:14. The Salton Sea. Carnegie Institution Washington Publication
 193, p. i-xi, 1-182, maps, pi. 1-32, June, 1914.
:17. A decade of the Salton Sea. Geographical Review, v. 3, p. 457-473
 :17. A decade of the Salton Sea. Geographical Review, v. 3, p. 457-473
 text fig. 1-8, June, 1917.
M EARNS, E: A.
:07. Mammals of the Mexican boundary of the United States. A des-
 cription catalogue of the species of mammals occurring in that region;
 with a general summary of the natural history, and a list of trees. Part 1
 Families Didelphiidae to Muridae. United States National Museum
 Bulletin 56, p. i-xv, 1-530, text fig. 1-125, pi. 1-13, 1907.
 Parish, S. B.
:07. Contributions toward a knowledge of the genus Washingtonia.
 Botanical Gazette, v. 44, p. 408-434, December, 1907.
 Richardson, C. H., Jr.
:12. The distribution of Hyla arenicolor Cope, with notes on its habits
 and variations, American Naturalist, v. 46, p. 605-611, map, October, 1912.
 Van Denburgh, J.
,( .)7. The reptiles of the Pacific Coast and Great Basin. Occasional
 Papers California Academy Sciences, v. 5, 1-236, numerous text figs.,
 September, 1S97.
 Williamson, R. S.
'55. Report of exolorations in California for railroad routes, to connect
 with the routes near the 35th and 32d parallels of North Latitude. Reports
 of explorations and surveys . . . for a railroad . . . to the Pacific
 Ocean ... in 1853-4, v. 5, pt. 1, p. 1-43, pi. 1-12, maps, cuts, 1S51
 (Date of complete volume, L856).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 71
unbroken stretches of flattish sandy country may well be doubted,
 but where, as here, the many mountain ranges form islands of a
 slightly less degree of desiccation, the snails are given a chance to
 maintain a figurative toehold, and in time to become better adapted
 their desert environment, while meanwhile the principle of isola-
 tion comes into play. It is only recently that it has been discovered
 that if numbers of species are to be regarded as criteria, the true
 molluscan metropolis of North America is not in tropic Florida,
 nor in the swampy lowlands of Louisiana and Texas, nor in the
 forests of the northwest, but in dry Arizona, where every mountain
 range, in some cases almost every canyon, seems to harbor its
 own peculiar land-snail fauna. There are of course numerous
 widespread species, principally minute, but the multitude are
 surprisingly local in their distribution. While it is perhaps not
 to be expected that the region under discussion will prove to rival
 southern Arizona, enough has now been done to show that further
 exploration will yield substantial rewards. The land snails natur-
 ally constitute the great unknown. Nevertheless fluviatile mollusks
 likewise are more important and numerous than might be suspected.
The Colorado Desert.  The term "Colorado Desert" has
 been somewhat variously applied by different writers, but the most
 logical as well as historically the most precise use of the name is
 undoubtedly the definition given by its original proponent, Prof.
 W. P. Blake, who writes (:14, p. 6-7; :15, p. 21-22):
'The name 'Colorado Desert' was given to this region by the
 writer in 1853."
"This was before the State of Colorado received its name. It
 was deemed most appropriate to connect the name of the Colorado
 River with the region inasmuch as the desert owes its origin to
 the river by the deposition of alluvions and the displacement of
 the sea-water."
"A tendency is shown by some writers to extend the area
 known as the Colorado Desert so as to include the arid regions
 north of it, especially the mountainous region along the Colorado
 ami the Mojave, partly known today as the 'Mojave Desert.'
 This was not the intention or wish of the author of the name. It
 was intended to apply it strictly to the typical desert area of the
 lacustrine clays and alluvial deposits of the Colorado where extreme
 characteristic desert conditions prevail, such as arid treeless plains,
 old lake beds and sand hills  such conditions as are found in the
 Sahara of Africa and in the delta regions of the Nile. I should also
72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
include the bordering detrital slopes from the contiguous mountains.
 So restricted, the area is practically coterminous with the ancient
 beach-lines and terraces of the lakes whic hoccupied the valley."
"Its area is estimated at not less than 2,100 square miles, its
 breadth east and west opposite Carrizo Creek about 33 miles. Its
 height above tide ranges from 135 feet above sea-level at Yuma to
 an average of 42 feet following the old shore line of Cahuilla Lake,
 and to minus 187 feet, now partly submerged."
The only possible criticism of this definition is that restricted
 in this way it becomes too purely geological and genetic for con-
 venient application to a physiographic phenomenon like a desert.
 Certainly a broadly conceived faunistic study of the region cannot
 so confine itself. For the purpose of such a study most workers
 will find it more practicable to define the region as that roughly
 enclosed on the north and northeast by the desert slopes of the
 San Bernardino Mountains and the divide which is formed by
 their depauperate southeastern spurs, the Cottonwood, Chucka-
 walla, and Chocolate Mountains, and which separates the Cahuilla
 Basin from the more diffused Mojave Desert further north; on
 the east and southeast by the Colorado River; and on the south-
 west and west by the eastern escarpment of the Peninsular Range
 and the Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains. The entire area
 will even then fall within the confines of the single major life zone
 known as the Lower Sonoran, unless one prefers to draw the desert
 boundary far enough up the circumventing mountains to include
 some portions of the Upper Sonoran zone.
Thus understood the general outline of the desert is roughly tri-
 angular, with the base on the Colorado River, the apex at the
 San Gorgonio Pass, and comprising within it the eastern portion
 of Riverside County, the whole of Imperial County, and a little
 of the eastern edge of San Diego County, California, while the
 southern corner of the triangle juts over into the Mexican territory
 of Lower California. San Bernardino County is barely touched in
 the vicinity of the Morongo. If Death Valley be excepted, the
 region is doubtless quite unique within the borders of the United
 Slates, if not in the world. From the floor of the Salton Sink which
 lies 265 feet below sea level, there is a gradual ascent of the desert
 floor to a line varying from nearly sea-level to about 2,500 feet
 along i he base of the mountains, which then rise abruptly to vary-
 ing heights, the most loftly being San Jacinto Peak, with an
 elevation of 10,805 feel, and San Gorgonio Peak, 11,485 feet high.
 By reason of their prevailingly granitic formations, lack of foot-
1922] NATURAL SCIENCE OF PHILADELPHIA 73
hills, and consequent abrupt ascent from the desert floor, the
 desert mountain ranges show a common peculiarity of contour
 which is pictured with especial felicity by J. Smeaton Chase in
 his very readable book, "California Desert Trails" (:19, p. 7):
"The characteristic contour form of the desert mountain ranges
 is another element in the beauty of desert color. Like geological
 models set on a table, they stand up sharply defined from the general
 level, arresting the glance with new, conspicuous effects. No
 gently modelled approaches prepare the eye for the change of
 plane. From gray or drab expanse of sand they rear up wall-like
 profiles of red or ochre. Perspective is dwarfed by the clearness of
 air, increasing the sense of verticality. Instead of rising from the
 desert, these mountains stand upon it, explicit, bald, almost arti-
 ficial."
Mt. San Jacinto furnishes the supreme example of these sudden
 changes in level. Measuring horizontally north on the topographic
 map from the peak to various points in Snow Creek Canyon and
 vicinity one finds a span of but 3 24 miles from the summit to the
 2,000-foot contour, or of only 5 miles to the 1,400-foot contour, a net
 drop of 9,405 feet. To the east of the peak the fall to the 500-foot
 contour takes place in less than seven horizontal miles. Very fre-
 quently of course less extreme descents take place much more
 abruptly.
Occurrence of Land Snails.  It has been deemed best to
 include the foregoing brief account of the region because an under-
 standing of its peculiar topography is of the utmost importance
 to the malacologist in view of the fact that the land snail fauna of
 the desert, so far as known, is confined wholly to these steep
 mountain slopes. From the Colorado Desert in the technically
 geological sense of Blake, endemic, terrestrial mollusks are pro-
 bably wholly lacking. The massive granitic fragments which litter
 the mountain bases, the obliquity, with reference to the rays
 of the sun, of all slopes but the hot southern exposures, and the
 modicum of moisture, however scanty, which seeps down from the
 heights, all serve to render possible the continued existence in
 such situations of these remarkably adapted xerobic creatures in
 a way not possible, even for them, on the scorching floor of the
 desert a stone's toss away. West of Indian Well I found myself
 literally able to collect Micrarionta xerophila from the steep
 mountain slope while standing with both feet firmly planted on
74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
the valley floor, where the most careful search discovered for us
 not a trace of a snail. No doubt there are many places where a
 repetition of this experience would be possible. In the deep
 canyons which gash these precipitous ranges conditions are fre-
 quently rather more favorable for land mollusks, though even
 here one encounters them on the slopes and rarely if at all along
 the water-courses themselves.
Although sometimes quite abundant, at least in the form of
 chalky-white dead shells scattered about the surface of the ground,
 they are often so rare that living specimens become quite difficult
 to detect. Consequently but few have found their way into the
 hands of students. If for practical reasons the now almost legendary
 Helix damascenus of Gould 2 be excepted, Bowers' discovery near
 Indio of the snail described by Yates in 1890 as Helix Carpenteri,
 var. Indioensis, but first recorded by Orcutt in 1889, was the
 earliest to be published. Almost simultaneously Orcutt reported
 the occurrence of a form .of Helix from Snow Creek and Palm
 Canyons which probably represented the species which Bartsch
 described from Palm Springs specimens in 1903 as Sonorella wal-
 cottiana. Meanwhile, Bryant in 1900 had described two snails from
 the "San Jacinto Mts. " under the names bowersi and harperi.
 Although very insufficiently known, at least one of these and
 quite possibly both belong to the same group of characteristic
 desert snails as those already noted. In 1904, Bartsch described
 Sonorella bailey i orcutt i from material collected by Orcutt "in
 the Colorado Desert." All the foregoing seem to have been de-
 scribed or recorded in each instance from dead shells only. It has
 only been very recently that Dr. Emmet Rixford collected living
 examples of wolcottiana at Palm Springs which Pilsbry (:18) has
 shown to possess the anatomical characteristics of the genus
 Micrarionta. . And this, so far as I can discover, quite completes
 the record, although a number of allied species of Micrarionta
 have been described from the ranges of the adjoining Mojave and
 Arizona deserts.
- Micrarionta (?) damascenus (Gould 1856).
 1856. Helix damascenus Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., v. 6, p. 11.
 1862. Helix pandorae (pars) Gould, Otia Conch., p. 219 (mere mention).
 1869. Helix pandorae (pars) Binney, in Binney <k Bland, Land & Fr. W. Sh.
N. Am., 1, ]>. ISO.
 1892. Helix pandorae var. damascenus Cooper, Zoc, v. 3, p. 18 (brief note).
The original locality is given by Gould as "Desert region east of California,"
 collected by Dr. Frick. Unless Frick's record is very far astray, the species
 can have little to do with Micrarionta pandorae (Forbes).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 75
With the exception of the small and in many respects peculiar
 species which is described in the present paper from Whitewater
 Canyon, the desert helicoids seem invariably to occupy the same
 sort of situations and to have essentially similar habits. They
 have not yet been discovered deep down in rockslides like so many
 of the Arizonian species, but generally aestivating under blocks
 and boulders of granite, or among the loose soil and rubble in the
 crevices thereof. When active they frequently come to the surface,
 where at favorable moments they may be found in the open,
 crawling. Beyond this little is known of their habits, their food
 supply, or their position in the general bionomic economy, as is a
 natural sequence of the fact that without any doubt the very
 great majority of existing species are still unknown to us in any
 way whatsoever.
The distribution of the desert palm. (Neowashingtonia filamentosa)
 has been plotted out with a view to showing its probable relation-
 ship to the ancient shore line of the Gulf of California which seems
 to have extended well up into this basin at no very distant period.
 Whether anything of the sort will be possible with the land snails
 remains to be seen, but it is at least an interesting speculation
 whether the characteristic desert Eremarionta was not itself, at one
 time, a maritime group as the more typical section of Micrarionta
 still remains to this day.
Of the numerous North American groups of land snails smaller
 than the helicoids, none appears to have been recorded from the
 area under discussion hitherto.
Freshwater Mollusca.  In nearly complete contrast to the
 land snails, interest in the fresh-water Mollusca necessarily centers
 almost exclusively in the relict-covered bed of the ancient Lake
 Cahuilla, in other words, the Colorado Desert in the exact original
 sense of that term. The wonder caused by the enormous numbers
 of the stranded shells which fill the soil in many parts of the valley,
 and the interest aroused by the eventual discovery of many of the
 same species still flourishing in certain of the outlying springs and
 rivulets has long attracted attention to this part of the fauna.
 The pioneer publication dealing with a fresh-water mollusk of this
 region was probably that of Lea ('52), who described his Anodonta
 Calif orniensis from the "Rio Colorado, California." A few years
 later Gould ('55) applied names to five species of fresh-water
70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
mollusks from the desert proper, most of which are still in use for
 those species. Among the more important works since that time
 are a furl her paper by Gould ('56), a brief account by Orcutt ('89),
 some incidental notes by Dall ('96), and Pilsbry ('99), and es-
 pecially the succession of papers by Stearns (79, '82, '83, '83a, '93)
 which finally culminated (:01) in a comprehensive monograph of the
 fresh-water mollusks based principally upon the desert fossils.
 The occurrence of these fo>ssils in windrows, at varying depths in
 the friable soil, and in the travertine of the terraces, has been of
 the greatest interest to the geologist engaged in tracing the past
 history of the basin, and they therefore receive at least passing
 mention in many general works on the Desert. There is little
 doubt that a more truly exhaustive study than has yet been at-
 tempted will be fruitful of results of the utmost value, not alone
 to the geologist, but to the systematist, the ecologist, and, thanks
 to the extraordinary character of the variations passed through
 by some of the forms, perhaps even to the student of evolution and
 the geneticist.
Except in the bibliography given, the present paper touches
 on the fresh-water mollusks only incidentally.
2.  BIBLIOGAPHY OF MOLLTTSCA OF THE COLORADO DESERT.
A. TAXONOMIC
Anon.
'56. Catalogue of the geological collection with descriptions of several
 of the si ecimens. Reports of explorations and surveys ... for a
 railroad ... to the Pacific Ocean ... in 1853^, vol. 5, pt. 2.
 Appendix, p. 344-358, 1856. (List of fossil and recent mollusks given on
 ]>. 350-354).
 Bartsch, P.
:03. A new Iandshell from California. Proceedings Biological Society
 Washington, vol. 1(1, p. 103-104, June, 1903. (Sonorella waleottiana n. sp.
 described from Palm Springs).
:04. Sonorella wolcottiana  a correction. Proceedings Biological Society
 Washington, vol, 17, p. 101, April, 1904.
:04a. Notes on the genus Sonorella, with descriptions of new species.
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), vol. 47, p. 187-
200, pi. 28 33, October, 1904. (Sonorella baileyi orcutti n. subsp. described
from Colorado Desert, with discussion and figures of allied Desert species).
BlNNEY, W. G.
'65. Land and fresh water shells of North America. Part II. Pulmonata
 limnophila and thalassophila. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
 vol. 7, no. 113, p. i ix, 1 171, text, fig. 1 261, September, L865.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 77
'65a. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part III. Ampui-
 Iariidae, Valvatidae, Viviparidae, fresh-water Rissoidae, Cyclophoridae,
 Truncatellidae, fresh-water Neritidae, Helicinidae. Smithsonian Mis-
 cellaneous Collections, vol. 7, no. 144, p. i-viii, 1-120, text fig. 1-232,
 September, 1865.
 Bryant, F. W.
:00. Description of a new Calil'ornian land shell. Nautilus, vol. 13,
 j). 122, March, 1900. Repr. in West American Scientist, vol. 11, p. 31, May,
 1900 (Epiphragmophora Bowersi n. sp. described from "San Jacinto
 Mts.")
:00a. Epiphragmophora harperi, n. sp. Nautilus, vol. 13, p. 143-141,
 April, 1900. Repr. in West American Scientist, vol. 11, p. 30, May, 1900.
 (Epiphragmophora harperi n. sp. described from "San Jacinto Mts.").
 Carpenter, P. P.
'64. A supplementary report on the present state of our knowledge
 with regard to the Mollusca of the west coast of North America. Report
 British Association Advancement Science, 1863, p. 517-686, August, 1864.
 Repr. in Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, p. 1-172, December,
 1872. (Some of Gould's fresh-water species noted on p. 593, 674, 676 [79,
 160, 162]).
 Cooper, J. G.
'92. Catalogue of the land and fresh-water Mollusca of Lower California.
 Zoe. vol. 3, p. 12-25, 1892. (Contains notes on Helix carpenteii, var. indioen-
 sis Yates, and certain fresh water species of the Colorado Desert).
 Conrad, T. A.
'55. Description of a new species of Melania. Proceedings Academy
 Natural Sciences Philadelphia, vol. 7, p. 269, 1855. (Melania exigua n.
 sp. described from Colorado Desert).
 Dall, W. H.
'96. Report on the mollusks collected by the International Boundary
 Commission of the United States and Mexico, 1892-1894. Proceeding
 United States National Museum, vol. 19, p. 333-379, pi. 31-33, 1896.
 (Contains notes on a number of the desert mollusks).
 Frauenfield, G. Ritter von.
'63. Vorlaufige Aufzahlung der Arten der Gattungen Hydrobia Htm.
 und Amnicola Gld. Hldm., in der Kaiserlichen und in Cuming's Sammlung.
 Verhandlungen d. k. k. zoologisch-botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien, 1863,
 p. 1025. (Bythinella seemani n. sp. described from Durango, Northwestern
 Mexico).
 Gould, A. A.
'55. New species of land and fresh-water shells from western (N.) America.
 Proceedings Boston Society Natural History, vol. 5, p. 126-130, February-
 March, 1855. (Contains descriptions of following new species of fresh
 water mollusks from various localities in the Colorado Desert: Physu
 humerosa, Planorbis ammon, Planorbis graeilentus , Amnicola protea, Amnicola
 longinqua).
'56. [Descriptions of shells]. Proceedings Boston Society Natural
 History, vol. 6, p. 11, October, 1856. (Helix damasceuus n. sp. described
 from "Desert region east of California." May be extralimital to present
 paper).
78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
'56a. Catalogue of the recent shells, with descriptions of the new species.
 Reports of explorations and surveys . . . for a railroad . . . to
 the Pacific Ocean ... in 1853-4, vol. 5, pt. 2, Appendix, p. 330-336,
 pi. 11, 1856. (Contains further descriptions and figures of mollusks named in
 '.-,5).
'62. Otia conchologica: descriptions of shells and mollusks, from 1839
 to 1862. p. 1-256, Svo, Boston, 1862. (Contains reprints of Gould, '55
 and '56).
 Hannibal, H.
:12. The aquatic molluscs of southern California and adjacent regions,
 a Transition fauna. Constituting Part II of "A census of the land and fresh-
 water mollusks cf south-western California." Bulletin Southern California
 Academy Sciences, vol. 11, p. 18-46, pi., January, 1912.
:12a. A synopsis of the recent and tertiary fresh-water molluscaof the
 Californian Province, based upon an ontogenetic classification. Proceedings
 Malacological Society London, vol. 10, p. 112-211, pi. 5-8, June-September,
 1912.
 Lea, I.
'52. Descriptions of new species of the family Unionidae. Transactions
 American Philosophical Society, (2), vol. 10, p. 253-294, pi. 12-29, 1852.
 (Same paper appears in Observations on the genus Unio, etc., vol. 5, p. 1-62,
 pi. 12-29, 1852. {A nodonta Californiensisn. sp. described from "Rio Colorado,
 California").
 Okcutt, C. R.
'89. Recent and sub-fossil shells of the Colorado Desert. West American
 Scientist, vol. 6, p. 92-93, August, 1889.
'89a. Editorial. West American Scientist, vol. 6, p. 95-96, August,
 1889. (On p. 96 notes discovery of a new Helix at Indio by Dr. Bowers.)
'90. West American notes. Nautilus, v. 4, p. 67-68, October, 1890.
 i Contains references to Helix indioensis Yates and other desert mollusks).
'91. Contributions to West American Mollusca.  1. West American
 Scientist, vol. 7, p. 222-224, September, 1891. (Contains note on Helix
 carpenteri var. indioensis Yates).
:00. Notes and news. West American Scientist ,vol. 11, p. 70, July,
 1900 (appears also in id., vol. 11, p. 28, August, 1900). (Contains notes
 (unimportant) on Epiphragmophora Harperi and Bow rsi, Bryant).
PlLSBRY, H. A.
'97- '98. A classified catalogue of American land shells, with localities.
 Nautilus, vol. 11, p. 45-48, 59-60, 71-72, 83-S4, 93-96, 105-108, 117-120,
 127-132, L38-144, August, 1897-April, 1898, Reprinted, with corrections,
 by II. A. Pilsbry and C, W. Johnson, p. 1-35, Philadelphia, 1898.
'99. ( 'at aloguc of the Amnicolidae of the western United States. Nautilus,
 vol. 12, p. 121-127, March, 1899. (Contains notes on Paludestrina longinqua,
 protea, etc.).
:()(). Sonorella, a new genus of Helices. Proceedings Academy Natural
 Sciences Philadelphia, 1<K)0, p. 556-560, pi. 21, November, 1900. (On p.
 560 includes Helix indioensis Yates in Sonorella. Occurrence of genus
 elsewhere in southern California anticipated).
:18. On the generic position of Sonorella wolcottiana Bartsch. Pro-
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 79
ceedings Academy Natural Sciences Philadelphia, 1918, p. 139-140, text
 fig. 1, 1918. (S. icolcottiana referred to Micrarionta).
:21. Land shells from Palm Canyon, California, and the Grand Canyon.
 Nautilus, vol. 35, p. 48, October, 1921. (Contains brief habit note on
 Micrarionta wolcottiana) .
 Steakns, R. E. C.
79. Remarks on fossil shells from the Colorado Desert. American
 Naturalist, vol. 13, p. 141-154, 12 figs., March, 1879.
'82. On the history and distribution of the fresh- water mussels and the
 identity of certain alleged species. Proceedings California Academy Sciences,
 p. 1-21, pi. 1-6, 1882. (Unionids of Colorado Desert dealt with on p. 4, 5, 6,
 8, 9). '
'83. Description of a new hydrobiinoid gasteropod from the mountain
 lakes of the Sierra Nevada, with remarks on allied species and the physio-
 graphical features of said region. Proceedings Academy Natural Sciences
 Philadelphia, 1883, p. 171-176, 1 text fig., 1883. (On p. 172-173 are some
 remarks on the Colorado Desert Paludestrinae, especially Trijonia).
'83a. On the shells of the Colorado Desert and the region farther east.
 American Naturalist, vol. 17, p. 1014-1020, text fig. 1-3, October, 1883.
'93. Report on the land and fresh-water shells collected in California
 and Nevada by the Death Valley Expedition, including a few additional
 species obtained by Dr. C. Hart Merriam and assistants in parts of the
 southwestern United States. North American Fauna, no. 7, p. 269-283,
 text fig. 1-2, May, 1893. (Deals largely with Mojave Desert and Inyo
 County fauna, but on p. 278 notes occurrence of living Bythinella protect,
 at Indian Springs, near Salton).
:01. The fresh-water shells of the Colorado Desert, their distribution,
 environment, and variation. Proceedings United States National Museum,
 vol. 24, p. 271-299, text fig. 1-9, pi. 19-24, 1901.
 Stimpson, W.
'65. Diagnoses of newly discovered genera of gasteropods, belonging
 to the sub-family Hydrobiinae, of the family Rissoidae. American Journal
 Conchology, vol. 1, p. 52-54, pi. 8, fig. 1, February, 1865. {Trijonia clathrata
 n. sp. described from "Basin of the Colorado Desert;" "semi-fossilized.")
'65a. Researches upon the Hydrobiinae and allied forms; chiefly made
 upon materials in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. Smith-
 sonian Miscellaneous Collections, p. 1-59, text fig. 1-29, August, 1865.
 (Includes account of Trijonia clathrata, etc.).
 Yates, L. G.
'90. A new variety of Helix carpenteri from southern California, Nauti-
 lus, vol. 4, p. 51-52, September, 1890. {Helix carpenteri, var. nov., des-
 cribed from near Indio, but not named).
'90a. A new variety of Helix. Nautilus, vol. 4, p. 63, October, 1890.
 {Helix carpenteri var. indioensis nov. described from near Indio).
80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
B NON-TAXONOMIC WORKS OF PRESENT INTEREST BECAUSE
 OF REFERENCES TO OCCURRENCE OF FOSSIL FRESH-
 WATER MOLLUSKS.
Blake, W. P.
'57. Geological report. Reports of explorations and surveys . . .
 for a railroad ... to the Pacific Ocean ... in 18.53-4, vol. 5,
 pt. 2, p. i-xvi, 1-310, pi. 1-13, charts, maps, cuts, 1x57. (An important
pioneer work; the Colorado Desert dealt with on p. 89-125 (Ch. VIII -X),
 137-138, 142, 144, 174-176, 189, 228-252 (Ch. XVII), 280-281, 308,309,
 etc; fossil mollusks noticed on p. 97, 101, 103, 109, 235, 239).
:14. The Cahuilla Basin and Desert of the Colorado. Carnegie Institu-
 tion Washington Publication 193, p. 1-12, pi. 1-2, June, 1914. (A some-
 what abridged edition of the following paper; fossil fresh-water shells briefly
 noticed on p. 3-4).
:15. Sketch of the region at the head of the Gulf of California, a review
 and history. In Cory, H. T., The Imperial Valley and the Salton Sink, pt.
 1, p. 1-35, 1915. (Occurrence of fossil fresh-water shells noticed on p.
 4, 7, 14, 17).
Chase, J. S.
:19. California desert trails, p. 1-387, 32 pis. 8 vo, Boston and New
 York, 1919. (Occurrence of fossil fresh-water shells referred to on p. 114,
 128, 179, 195, 262, 265).
Free, E. E.
:14. Sketch of the geology and soils of the Cahuilla Basin. Carnegie
 Institution Washington Publication 193, p. 21-33, pi. 6-8, June, 1914
 (P. 25-29 contains a valuable discussion of the origin of the Basin, the
 author doubting its ever having been part of the Gulf; fresh-water molluscan
 fossils mentioned on p. 26).
Hanks, H. (!.
'82. Mud-volcanoes and the Colorado Desert. Second Annual Report
 California State Mineralogist, p. 227-240, 1882.
James, ('. W.
:06. The wonders of the Colorado Desert (Southern California), its
 rivers and its mountains, its canyons and its springs, its life and its history,
 pictured and described, including an account of a recent journey made
 down the overflow of the Colorado River to the mysterious Salton Sea.
 2 vols. (vol. 1, p. i-xl, 1-270; vol. 2, p. i-xiv, 271-547], many illustrations,,
 8 vo, Boston, 1906. (Fresh-water molluscan fossils noticed on p. 5, 25-20
 29, 31, & 102 of vol. 1).
James, .). F.
'82. The Colorado Desert, Popular Science Monthly, vol. 20, p. 384-
 o'.M), January, 1882. (On p. 387 refers to occurrence of Anodonta Californian-
 sis, Antttjrnlti kmginquas, Tnjonea protea, and Physa humerosa, as fossils).
Jones, J. C.
:14. The tufa deposits of the Salton Sink. Carnegie Institution Wash-
 ington Publication 193, p. 79-83, June, 1914. (Occurrence of fresh-water
 snail >liclls in tufa of prehistoric Blake Sea at Travertine Point, etc., noted
 on ]. 81, 83).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 81
MacDougal, D. T.
:14. General discussion. Carnegie Institution Washington Publication
 193, p. 173-182, June, 1914. (An important paper; mentions occurrence
 of shells of fresh-water mollusks in the travertine on p. 173).
:15. The Salton Sea. American Journal Science, (4), vol. 39, p. 231-
 250, text fig. 1-6, March, 1915. (Occurrence of fossil fresh-water mollusks
 noticed on p. 233).
 Mendenhall, W. C.
:09. Ground waters of the Indio Region, California, with a sketch of
 the Colorado Desert (60th Congress, 2d Sess., House of Representatives
 Document 1296) United States Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper
 225, p. 1-56, text fig. 1-5, pi. 1-12, 1909. (Occurrence of shells of fresh-
 water mollusks on floor of desert mentioned on pp. 18, 19).
 Orcutt, C. R.
'90. The Colorado Desert, West American Scientist, vol. 7, p. 55, 1890.
'90. The Colorado Desert, Tenth Annual Report California State Min-
 eralogist, p. 899-919, 1890.
:01. The Colorado Desert, West American Scientist, vol. 12, p. 2-14,
 July, 1901.
:14. Plant ecology and fioristics of Salton Sink. Carnegie Institution
 Washington Publication 193, p. 85-114, June, 1914. (On p. 85 mentions oc-
 currence of shells of fresh-water mollusks in the soil).
 Veatch, J. A.
'57. Mud volcanoes of the Colorado Desert. Proceedings California
 Academy Sciences, vol. 1, p. 104-108, 1857.
C WORKS MORE OR LESS EXTRA-L1MITAL,
 BUT WITH IMPORTANT BEARING.
 Clapp, G. H.
:07. Epiphragmophora (Micrarionta) hutsoni n. sp. Nautilus, vol.
 20, p. 136-137, pi. 9, fig. 1-4, April, 1907.
:08. New land shells from Arizona and New Mexico. Nautilus, vol.
 22, p. 76-78, 96, pi. 7, pi. 8, fig. 1-3, December 1908 to March 1909.
 Edson, H. M., & Hannibal, H.
:11. A census of the land and fresh-water mollusks of southwestern
 California. Part 1  Land Mollusca, Bulletin Southern California Academy
 Sciences, vol. 10, p. 47-64, 1 pi., July, 1911. (P. 56-57 records Thysanophora
 ingorsolli from South Mission Canyon, San Bernardino Mts.).
 Lewis, J.
'75. [Anodonta dejecta nov.] Field and Forest, vol. 1, p. 26, 1875.
 '75. Description of a new species of Anodonta. In Yarrow, H. C,
 Report upon the collections of terrestrial and fluviatile Mollusca made in
 portions of Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, and Arizona, during the years
 1872, 1873, and 1874 Final Report United States Geological Survey West
 of the 100th Meridian [Wheeler Exp.], vol. 5, p. 952-953, 1875. {Anodonta
 dejecta n. sp.).
 Pilsbrv, H. A.
:13. Notes upon some Lower California!! Helices. Proceedings Academy
82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
Natural Sciences Philadelphia, 1913, p. 380-393, text fig. 1-3, pi. 15-10,
 .Inly, 1913. (Contains some valuable general notes on Micrarionta).
:19. A new California]! Micrarionta. Nautilus, vol. 33, p. 53, October,
 1919. {Micrarionta rixfordi n. sp. described from 10 m. west of Twenty-
 nine Palms).
 PlLSBRY, H. A., & Ferriss, J. H.
:08. A now Micrarionta from Arizona. Nautilus, vol. 21, p. 134-130,
 pi. 11, fig. 0-10, April, 1908. (Paper contains some valuable general notes
 on genera Micrarionta and SonoreUa).
SlMFSON, C. T.
'93. A new Anodonta. Nautilus, vol. 0, p. 134-135, April, 1893. (Ano-
 donta Mearnsiana n. sp. described from San Bernardino Ranch, Mexican
 Boundary, Arizona ;= dejecta Lewis).
'94. T3'pes of Anodonta dejecta rediscovered. Nautilus, vol. 8, p. 52-53,
 September, 1894.
3.-  SPECIES COLLECTED IN THE COLORADO DESERT IN 1919
 AND 1920, WITH NOTES ON OTHERS.
Source of Material.  In March, 1919, Mr. George Willett
 of Los Angeles visited the Desert in the neighborhood of Palm
 Springs and Indian Well, and made a small but interesting collec-
 tion of land snails, including some "live shells" of Micrarionta
 wolcottiana, which he kindly turned over to the present writer for
 study. A year later Mr. Allyn G. Smith of Redlands and Berkeley
 made a brief stay in the same region. He returned with so many
 interesting specimens, including the most remarkable find of living
 wolcottiana hitherto made, that early in April Mr. Smith, Mr. .1.
 Stanley Ferguson of Redlands, and the writer, with automobile aid,
 undertook a three-day reconnaissance of the upper end of the des-
 ert, collections being made at sixteen stations. Although but ten
 species of mollusks were taken on this expedition, two of these
 prove to be undescribed, and another constitutes a new record for
 Hie slate of California. All told, six of the ten species are additions
 to our list of the; Desert fauna. This material now becomes the
 principal basis of the present paper, although a series of specimens
 received from the California Academy of Sciences through the kind-
 ness of Dr. Barton Warren Evermann, Director, and Mr. W. W.
 Sargeant, Secretary, and a specimen kindly given by Mr. C. R. Gh-
 ent i, are also considered. I am happy to acknowledge my indebt-
 edness to all these gentlemen, as well as to Dr. Emmet Rixford of
 San Francisco, who kindly loaned me some useful comparative
 material from his own collection. I am under obligation to Dr.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 83
Joseph Grinnell of the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology of the
 University of California for the use of the accompanying outline
 map.
List of Stations, with Data.  Although collecting was done
 in three groups of mountains, the San Bernardino, San Jacinto,
 and Santa Rosa ranges, 3 all the localities visited are within the
 limits of Riverside County, California and in the border zone of
 the Colorado Desert.
On the expedition participated in by the writer land snails
 were taken at fourteen stations, namely Stations I, II, III, IV,
 VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIV, XVI, and XVII. Fresh-
 water mollusks were taken at three stations, XII, XIII, and XV.
 One station, V, yielded no collections. Certain stations which
 were worked by only one of the party are indicated accordingly.
Station I. Under stones and shrubs on steep talus slope of
 decomposed granite, west side of Whitewater Canyon, about one
 mile above mouth, San Bernardino Mts.; alt. 1,700 ft.; April 1,
 1920. (Plate VIII, fig. 1.)
Station II. Among loose leaves and mould under small tree
 (probably Rhus sp.) on rough wall of small side canyon on east
 side of Whitewater Canyon, near first principal bend, San Bernar-
 dino Mts.; alt. 1,800 ft.; April 1, 1920. (Plate VIII, fig. 2).
Station III. Base of west wall Whitewater Canyon, nearly
 opposite Station II, San Bernardino Mts.; alt. 1,700ft.; April 1,
 1920; A. G. Smith. (Plate VIII, fig. 1).
Station IV. Among granite -blocks on lower portion of slope,
 base of San Jacinto Mts., back of Palm Springs; alt. 500 ft.; April
 1, 1920; S. S. Berry.
Station V. Point Happy, Santa Rosa Mts., east of Indian Well;
 alt. 200-400 ft.; search at night by aid of electric flash-lamp yielded
 no results; poor place; April 1, 1920; A. G. Smith.
Station VI. Among granite rocks at head of cove in spur of
 Santa Rosa Mts., southeast of Indian Well; alt, 250-300 ft.,
 April 2, 1920; slope steep, dry, and with little vegetation.
3 So far as I can discover there is little to be gained by the prevailing recognition
 of the San Jacinto and Santa Rosa mountain groups as separate ranges. Palm
 Canyon or it might be more explicit to say, Palm Creek, is the only distinguish-
 able boundary between them. Consequently, in clinging to the standard ter-
 minology, one must accredit all stations east of this creek to the Santa Rcsa,
 west of it, to the San Jacintos.
84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Of [VOL. LXXIV
Station VII. Among granite rocks on steep slope close to Highway
 about 5 miles west of Indian Well, Santa Rosa Mts.; alt. 400-600
 ft.; April 2, 1920; little moisture, vegetation scanty.
Station VIII. Among granite rocks on west slope of promontory
 of Santa Rosa Mts. across valley from Palm Springs; alt. 500 ft.;
 April 2, 1920; dry, poor situation.
Station IX. Among shrubs and loose rocks on east slope of
 West Fork of Palm Canyon, San Jacinto Mts.; alt. 750 ft.; April
 2, 1920, S. S. Berry.
Stat i on X. On ridge above the Hermit's cabin, west slope of
 Palm Canyon, San Jacinto Mts.; alt. 100-1,100 ft., April 2, 1920,
 A. G. Smith.
Station XI. East slope Palm Canyon, above junction with
 Little Palm Creek, Santa Rosa Mts.; alt, 900-1,300 ft,; April 2-3,
 1920; slope covered with large rocks, shrubs, cacti, and smaller
 plants; search made from 9:30 to 10:00 P. M. by aid of electric
 Hash-lamp, and by daylight from 6:00 to 10:00 A. M. (Plate
 VIII, fig. 3; Plate IX, fig. 1).
Station XII. Drift of storm rivulets along west side of Palm
 Creek just above junction with Little Palm Creek, San Jacinto
 Mts.; alt, 900 ft,; April 3, 1920. (Plate IX, fig. 1).
Station XIII. Little Palm Creek, just above junction with main
 stream, Santa Rosa Mts. ; alt, 900 ft. ; April 3, 1920. (Plate I, fig. 3).
Station XIV. Moist slope, upper Little Palm Canyon, Santa
 Rosa Mts.; alt. 1,200 ft,; April 3, 1920; A. G. Smith.
Station XV. Spring on east slope of Palm Canyon below junction
 with Little Palm Creek, Santa Rosa Mts.; alt, 850 ft.; April 3,
 1920.
Station XVI. Marshy spot on west slope of Palm Canyon, San
 Jacinto Mts., alt. 800 ft.; April 3, 1920; A. G. Smith.
Station XVII. Base of San Jacinto Mts. just west of entrance
 to Snow Creek Canyon; alt, 1,500 ft, ; April 3, 1,920; moist slope
 with trees and much other vegetation, has appearance of fine
 snail country, but the most industrious stone turning and digging
 yielded scanty results.
NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA
85
4. ANNOTATED LIST OF SPECIES.
HELICIDAE
 Genus MICRARIONTA Ancy 1880
This group, long subordinated as a section or subgenus of
Distribution of genus Micrarionta in California and western Arizona, with
 special reference to the desert species, subgenus Eremarionta (indicated by
 capital letters).
Epiphragmophora, has recently been elevated on anatomical
86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OT [VOL. LXXIV
grounds to full generic rank by Pilsbry and Ferriss (:08, p. 135-136),
 who refer to it not only the typical species found on the southern
 California coast and islands, but also the desert forms of the
 Colorado basin. Tentatively admitting the propriety of this
 arrangement, at least until the proper relationship of all the
 western dart-bearing Helices to the more austral true Epiphragmo-
 phoras becomes more clear than I believe it to be at present,
 there still seem to exist abundant reasons for a further separation
 of the two very distinct Californian groups of Micrarionta into
 subgenera. All the species known fall easily into one or the other
 of these, the maritime species into Micrarionta s. s., the desert
 ones into Pilsbry 's group Eremarionia.
Subgenus EREMARIONTA Pilsbry 1913
Shell almost always whitish or pale fawn colored or light brown,
 with a darker band above the periphery. Spiral sculpture wanting.
 Nuclear whorls sculptured with curiously formed, elongate papillae,
 sometimes bearing hair-like periostracal projections, and arranged
 in oblique, forward slanting lines, the radial sculpture being
 generally relatively inconspicuous.
Type: Micrarionta desertorum Pilsbry and Ferriss.
To judge from the nature of the shell characters, and especially
 the details of the embryonic sculpture, all the following previously
 described species seem referable to Eremarionta. The anatomy,
 however, has been investigated (by Pilsbry) only in the case of
 the first three: Micrarionta desertorum Pilsbry and Ferriss, Sono-
 rella wolcottiand Bartsch, Micrarionta hutsoni Clapp, Epiphragmo-
 phora harperi Bryant, Sonorella (baileyi) orcutti Bartsch, Helix
 (( 'arpenteri, var.) Indiocnsis Yates, Sonorella argus Edson, Mic-
 rarionta rixfordi Pilsbry.
To these should logically be added Sonorella baileyi Bartsch and
 Sonorella fisheri Bartsch, which I have not seen, and the two new
 species to be described, with perhaps also the Epiphragmophora
 bmversi Bryant, the whole forming a rather weakly differentiated
 concourse of species entirely confined to the desert regions border-
 ing the Colorado River and its basin, in southeastern California
 and western Arizona.
On the other hand the species of typical Micrarionta are all
 maritime and in their distribution well separated from the Eremar-
 ionta group, unless, as there are reasons for suspecting, the numerous
 Lower California Helices now generally referred to Sonorella
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 87
actually prove to be true Eremariontas, which would cause the
 areas inhabited by the two groups slightly to overlap. So far as
 at present known, Micrarionta s. s. is confined to the islands and
 adjacent mainland of California and northern Lower California.
 The typical section seems now to be restricted to the islands the
 section Xerarionta alone occuring upon both islands and mainland.
 An examination of these maritime forms shows that although
 subject to much variation in form and sculpture as among them-
 selves, so as to fall readily into several fairly well delimited sub-
 groups, they all agree in having a nuclear sculpture of simple,
 wavy, or anastomosing radial riblets, often obsolete, but not
 papillose or only obscurely so, and never, so far as I ha\ e been
 able to discover, showing a definite system of elongate papillae
 as in the desert species.
Eremarionta, then, is evidently wholly and characteristically
 Lower Sonoran in a faunal sense. It is probably also, at least in
 large degree, characteristic of what mammalogists and others have
 denominated the Rupestrine association of that zone.
Possibly both groups will eventually find a place as subgenera
 of one of the other West American genera.
Micrarionta aquae-albae new species. Plate VIII, fig. 2; Plate IX, figs, 2-6.
Shell small, thin, depressed-conic, umbilicate, the umbilicus
 deeply permeable, its diameter contained about six times in that
 of the shell. Whorls four, convex, subcarinate, with deeply
 channeled sutures, the last whorl only slightly descending in front.
 Aperture ample, obscurely angulate at the periphery, strongly
 oblique, its deflection about 40. Peristome thin, sharp, not
 reflected except slightly at the umbilicus, its edges strongly con-
 verging and connected by a thin parietal callus. Pcriostracum
 slightly dehiscent, rather harsh and coarse for the size of the shell,
 being roughened not only by the lines of growth, but by a very
 close, fine, everywhere persistent, radial wrinkling, and by an
 overlying system of small papillae, which are elongate and so
 crowded as to be almost anastomosing on the first whorl, subse-
 quently becoming more distinct, granular in appearance, and
 evidently ranked in fairly well defined, forward slanting lines.
 Papillae on body whorl show a progressively less regular arrange-
 ment until on the base they become smaller and more crowded
 and their linear arrangement is no longer evident. Color of dry
 shell near Saccardo's umber of Iiidgway, slightly lighter below,
 with a narrow, very obscure sepia band just above the periphery.
 Body whorl of shell on living animal snuff brown, with sepia spots
 where mantle pigment shows through. Color of animal,  upper
 portion of body slate, the margins neutral gray; mantle a little
88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
lighter than "pale grayish vinaceous, " conspicuously maculated
 or spotted with slate on surface next shell; sole of foot light mouse
 gray, shading at edge 1 to neutral gray.
Maximum Minimum Diameter Number
Diameter Diameter Altitude Umbilicus of Whorls
mm. mm. mm. mm.
Type 7.7 . G 4.5 1.2 4
Paratype (largest dead
shell) 7.6 6.6 4.5 1.3 4
Paratype 6.5 5.4 3.5 1.2 3%
Paratype (dead shell)... 7.0 5.7 3.7 1.2 :;",
Station I (live shell). .. 7.4 6.2 4.3 1.2 4
Station I (dead shell) . . 7.3 6.1 4.0 1.2 4
Type : Berry Collection Cat. No. 4,890. Paratypes in the museum
 of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, The Cali-
 fornia Academy of Sciences, and the private collection of Allyn
 G. Smith.
Type locality: Station II; among loose leaves and mould under
 ;i small tree (probably Rhus sp.,) in gulch on east side of White-
 water Canyon, near first bend to west, alt. ca. 1,800 ft.; San Ber-
 nardino Mountains, California; April 1, 1920; 4 living, 21 dead
 shells. Also Station I ; talus slope on west side of Whitewater
 Canyon, about 1 mile above mouth; alt. ca. 1,700 ft.; San Ber-
 nardino Mountains, California; April 1, 1920; 1 living, 17 dead
 shells.
Unassuming enough at first glance and even reminding one
 somewhat of some of the common small land snails of the type of
 Gonyodiscus, or of certain of the lesser Arizonian Oreohelices, close
 inspect 'on reveals this little snail as very distinct from all described
 American species. Its harshly shagreened periostracum, though
 furnishing almost its only striking specific character, is unlike that
 of any other snail I have noticed. This feature is evidently but
 an elaboration of the type of sculpture so characteristic of the
 earlier whorls in such species as hutsoni, wolcottiana. Hence it
 seems appropriate to refer the species, at least until its anatomy
 can be investigated, to Eremarionta. 4 All its other features, coarse
 periostracum, texture of shell, and particularly the conspicuously
 spotted mantle, must be confessed to resemble those of no other
 Eremarionta which has been described, being more like these of
 some of the species of the Helminthoglypta group.
4 A dissection made by Dr. H. A. Pilsbury sinee this paper went to press has
 shown this species to possess (he usual genitalia of Micrarionta.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 89
Micrarionta wolcottiana (Bartsch 1903) Plate I, fig. 3.
? 1890. Helix Traskii, form, Orcutt, Nautilus, vol. 4, p. 67 (recorded from
 Palm Canyon and Snow Creek.)
1903. SonareUa wolcottiana Bartsch, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., vol. 1G, p. 103.
1904. Sonorella wolcottiana Bartsch, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., vol. 17, p. 101.
 (emended spelling).
1904. Sonorella wolcottiana Bartsch, Smiths, Misc. Coll., vol. 47, p. 187, 188,
 pi. 28; pi. 31, fig. 4.
1905. Sonorella wolcottiana Pilsbry, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 254
 (passing mention).
1908. Micrarionta wolcottiana Pilsbry & Ferriss, Nautilus, vol. 21, p. 135
(brief note).
 1918. Micrarionta wolcottiana Pilsbry, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1918, p.
139, text fig. 1 (anatomy).
 1921. Micrarionta wolcottiana Pillsbry, Nautilus, vol. 35, p. 48 (noted north
of Palm Canyon).
The shell of this species has already been well described and fig-
 ured by Bartsch (:03, :04a) although many more figures will be re-
 quired to show the remarkable variations to which even the mem-
 bers of a single colony are subject. Certain anatomical features of
 taxonomic importance have likewise received treatment at the com-
 petent hands of Pilsbry (:18). To the published information the
 following color notes on the shell and animal may well be added.
The body of the living animal is Chaetura drab passing to drab at
 the margin, and with a narrow stripe of hair brown along the medio-
 dorsal line. The sole is wood brown shading to avellaneous at the
 margin. The shell on the living animal is white (on its thicker
 portions), passing through vinaceous buff and intermediate shades
 to hair brown. The empty shell of the adult is light in tone, the
 body whorl varying from Tilleul buff to avellaneous, paling on the
 spire to cartridge buff or almost to pinkish buff, and in the
 immediate vicinity of the umbilicus to pale vinaceous fawn or
 almost white. The shoulder band, usually bordered above and
 below by a similar band of whitish, is quite a dark liver brown,
 often showing a sort of breaking up into two components, the
 d arker one appearing with odd effect to overlie a lighter and brighter
 one of cinnamon rufous tone, Young and immature shells before
 the formation of the peristome are invariably much darker and
 brighter in color than the adults, the body of the shell a rather
 light snuff brown, toning to avellaneous on the spire and vinace-
 ous buff at the umbilicus.
Fifteen specimens in the collection of Allyn G. Smith yield the
 following caliper measurements:
90
Locality
Mu rray Canyon . .
 Murray Canyon..
Murray Canyon..
 Tahquitz Canyon
 Tahquitz Canyon .
Maximum Minimum
 Diameter Diameter
lnm
24.0
23
21
20
19.0
 25.3
 24.6
 24.7
 20.7
 20.3
mm.
19.8
20.4
17.5
17.0
17.1
15.8
20.6
20.5
20.2
17.2
16.7
Altitude
 mm.
 15.1
 15.5
 12.7
 13.2
 13.4
 11.6
 18.5
 15.3
 13.6
 14.1
Diameter
 Umbilicus
2.0
 2.0
 1.8
 2.3
1.5
Condition of
nearly covered
 nearly covered
 partly covered
 covered
Aperture deflection of last specimen mentioned in table, 50.
 Material has been examined as follows:
No.
Spec- Locality
imens
3 Base of San Jacinto Mts.,
 W. of Snow Or. Canyon
 7 Slope back of Palm Springs,
San Jacinto Mts.
 9 do
(i do
100% Entrance to Tahquitz Can-
 yon, San Jacinto Mts.
 1 (i Murray Canyon, San
Jacinto Mts.
 9 West Fork Palm Canyon,
 San Jacinto Mts.
 12 West side PalmCanyon,
20 East side Palm Canyon,
Santa Rosa Mts.
1 Little Palm Canyon, Santa
Rosa Mts.
2 Promontory E. of Palm
Valley, Santa Rosa Mts.
Altitude Collector Date Condition
1,500 ft. Sta. XV11 Apr. 3, 1920 dead
500ft. Geo. Willett Mar. 18, 1919 living
" ft. A. G. Smith Mar. 25, 1920 1 living
" ft. Sta. IV Apr. 1, 1920 dead
A. G. Smith Mar. 25, 1920 living
 1,500-
2,000 ft. A.G.Smith Mar. 24, 1920 living
750 ft. Sta. IX
100-
1,100 ft. Sta. X
900-
1 ,300 ft. Sta. XI
1,200ft, Sta. XIV
500 ft. Sta. Vlll
Apr. 2, 1920
dead
Apr. 2, 1920 dead
2 adults
 Apr. 2-3, 1920 1 juv. living
Apr. 3, 1920 dead
One of the principal objects of our expedition of April, 1920,
 was to establish certain facts regarding the range of this most
 conspicuous of the desert snails. While its extreme limits were
 probably not ascertained, we collected it at many stations, from
 Station Y1II on the promontory at the mouth of Palm Valley
 on the east, up Palm Canyon and Little Palm Canyon to Stations
 XI and XIV, and thence around Palm Valley via Stations
 XII, IX, and IV to Palm Springs, and then again at Station
 XVII on the slope just west of the entrance to Snow Creek Canyon,
 well up into the San Gorgonie Pass. Mr. Smith had previously
 collected the species in some numbers in the lower part of Murray
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 91
Canyon (on both slopes), and more especially at the mouth of
 Tahquitz Canyon. He must have happened on a remarkably
 favored location at a fortunate time, for on the later expedition
 we failed to meet with living specimens in any numbers anywhere,
 whereas only a week before he had taken over a hundred in the
 open at the latter locality alone. On that occasion he found the
 snails abundant and crawling actively on the surface among big
 slabs of granite and under bushes on quite a moist slope, where
 they seemed to constitute quite a definite colony. The time was
 between 8:00 and 9:30 A. M. In Murray Canyon where he had
 collected the previous afternoon, Mr. Smith found dead shells
 fairly common on both slopes of the canyon along its lower course,
 but live shells were only scattering and mostly to be found under
 stones, indeed only one being found crawling on the surface. In
 this canyon he could detect no indication of any association in
 colonies, and we found conditions in Palm. Canyon altogether
 similar in this respect. The slope back of the Palm Springs Hotel,
 which, by the way, impressed us as by no means the best collecting
 ground, is reputed to be the type locality. This was our Station
 IV, or at any rate not far from it.
Orcutt ('90, p. 67) has already recorded a snail which he collected
 at Snow Creek Canyon as Helix traskii, but at that time the
 peculiarities of the desert snails were little understood, and I think
 there is small doubt that his shells were really wolcottiana. The
 fact that we collected indubitable specimens of the species so
 near there and actually to the west supports this contention.
 True Epiphragmophora traskii is still unknown from the desert
 drainage.
As is brought out in the table of measurements, wolcottiana is
 an extremely variable species even within the confines of a single
 circumscribed colony like that found at the mouth of Tahquitz
 Canyon. Some are fairly depressed, some strongly elevated, some
 large, some with less than one-half the bulk, some extremely thin,
 some thick and heavy, some with the narrow umbilicus left nearly
 free, others with it entirely closed, and so on. The color of the
 animal, too, shows a considerable range of variability, though
 always strikingly different from, that, for instance, of the following
 species. On the other hand the shells of adults vary little in color.
 Young shells are always much darker and brighter than adults,
 their bright snuff brown color being quite unlike that of any other
 species of desert snail.
92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
The canyons inhabited by this snail are generally noteworthy
 for their growth of the palm, Neowashingtonia, but the palms
 occur principally in close proximity to the creek bed, while the
 snails inhabit the immediately adjacent slopes.
Micrarionta xerophila new species. Plate X, figs. 1-4.
Shell strongly depressed, of moderate weight; whorls convex;
 sutures distinct; last whorl strongly descending behind peristome.
 Umbilicus of moderate width, being contained about seven times
 the diameter of the shell, funicular, permeable. Aperture strongly
 oblique, its deflexion about 45. Peristome distinctly thickened,
 its margin somewhat reflected, especially near the umbilicus,
 the circular outline of which, however, is scarcely affected. Nuclear
 whorls heavily covered with elongate, moderately crowded papillae,
 more or less distinctly ranked in oblique, forward slanting lines;
 subsequent whorls showing gradually smaller, more granular, and
 less crowded papillae, which finally become practically obsolete
 on the body whorl both above and below. Spiral sculpture wanting.
 Periostracum, except for the papillae and numerous fine lines of
 growth, smooth, thin, lustrous. Shell moderately to conspicuously
 encircled by a narrow band, 0.5-1.0 mm. wide, varying in color
 from deep brownish vinaceous in light toned shells, to liver brown
 in darker ones, this band bordered above and below by very light
 bands about twice as wide, which vary from white to light ivory
 yellow; base of shell pale grayish vinaceous to avellaneous; region
 below suture pale grayish vinaceous to deep brownish vinaceous;
 shell on living animals pale olive buff, passing to cinnamon drab
 near suture, often much mottled or clouded. Body of animal
 varying from slate black to black, shading slightly lighter toward
 margin; mantle neutral gray to slate gray, without conspicuous
 pigment patches; sole of foot deep neutral gray, shading rather
 abruptly to blackish slate at margin.
Maximum Minimum Diameter Number of
Diameter Diameter Altitude Umbilicus Whorls
hiratvpe (dead shell ). . 17.0 14.0 10.1 2.4 4%
Paratype, Smith Coll... 16. S 13. S 9.3 2.3 4%
Paratype (dead shell) . . 16.3 13.5 10.3 2.3 4%
Type 16.7 13.5 9.2 2.3 4Y 2
Paratype 14.0 11.7 8.2 2.0 4Y 2
Type: Berry Collection Cat. No. 4,888. Paratypes in the
 museum of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,
 the California Academy of Sciences, and tin; private collection of
 Allyn G. Smith.
Type Locality. Station VII; in crevices and under stones on
 slope on Ocean to Ocean Highway, 5 miles west of Indian Well,
 Riverside County, California; alt. 400-000 ft.; April 2, 1920, 4
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 93
living, 18 dead shells. Also found 1 mile south of Indian Well,
 Riverside County, California; George Willett, March, 1919; 6 liv-
 ing specimens.
This very attractive little snail in many respects recalls Pilsbry's
 description of his Micrarionta rixfordi, but the umbilicus is narrower,
 and the sculpturing of the earlier whorls evidently quite different.
 As the two species come from different mountain systems, with
 the whole upper Cahuilla Basin between, it is doubtful if they
 are as nearly allied as the descriptions superficially indicate. To
 my notion, M. hidioensis is really the nearest akin to xerophila of
 any of those previously described. Its larger size, more elevated
 outline, and narrower umbilicus serve to distinguish it, but it is
 the same general type of shell, and it may be that enough inter-
 grades will come to light in intervening territory to reduce M.
 xerophila to the status of a subspecies. In fact, the small series
 of snails above noted which Mr. Willett collected to the south of
 Indian Well may represent one of the intermediate forms, as his
 specimens, though surely not all typical of indioensis, are yet not
 quite characteristic of xerophila. It seems best to refer them to
 the latter species at least tentatively, as the available information
 regarding the possible limits of variation in all these forms is
 still very scanty.
The dead shells were either picked up on the surface or from
 among loose soil and rocks, but living ones could be obtained only
 by digging out the loose detritus in the lee of large rocks, following
 up crevices, or turning stones. They were generally within a few
 inches of the surface, and wherever deeper digging was attempted
 we met with no success.
Micrarionta indioensis (Yates 1890)
1889. New species of Helix Orcutt, W. Am. Hoi., vol. 6, p. 96 (brief note).
1890. Helix Carpenteri var., Yates, Nautilus, vol. 4, p. 51.
1890. Helix (Arionta) Carpenteri var. Indioensis Yates, Nautilus, vol. 4, p.
 63.
1S90. Helix Traskii, form, Orcutt, Nautilus, vol. 4, p. 07.
1891. Helix Traskii, var. Indioensis Orcutt, W. Am. Sci., vol. 7, p. 223
 (brief note).
1892. Helix rowellii (pars) Cooper, Zoe, vol. 3, p. 19 (brief note).
1894. Epiphragmophora indioensis Pilsbry, Man. Conch., (2), vol. 9, p. 199
 (teste Bartsch).
1896. Epiphragmophora indioensis Dall, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 19,
 p. 337, 366 (brief note).
1897. Epiphragmophora indioensis Pilsbry, Nautilus, vol. 11, p. 59 (merely
 catalogued).
1898. Epiphragmophora indioensis Pilsbry, Cat. Am. Land Sh., p. 5 (merely
94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
1900. Sonorella indioensis Pilsbry, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 550
(passing mention).
 1904. Sonorella indioensis Bartsch, Smiths, Misc. Coll., vol. 47, p. 187,
189, pi. 33, fig. 1.
 1908. Micrarionta indioensis Pilsbry & Ferriss, Nautilus, vol. 21, p. 135
This is the longest known of the desert Helices, yet does not
 seem to have been collected many times, and I cannot find thai
 living specimens have ever been taken. In spite of much exertion,
 we ourselves were no more fortunate than our predecessors in this
 respect. The type locality is said to be "near Indio, " but without
 doubt this can be emended to "south of Indio," rather than north,
 as the dead shells found by us in the cove back of Indian Well are,
 except for their slightly smaller size, so nearly typical as to indicate
 I hat the original specimens could not have been collected so very
 far away. At this point the steep slope is, at the present time,
 very dry, supporting only the scantiest vegetation, and even dead
 shells proved difficult to find, although occurring scattered loosely
 on the surface from, near the base of the slope to the top of the
 ridge. Only 11 fairly good shells was the total catch of the party
 in an hour or so of work. This and M. xerophila appear to be
 species of the Santa Rosa Range; they are unknown from the
 Sau Jacintos.
The largest specimen at hand measures: maximum diameter.
 18.6; minimum diameter, 15.1 ; altitude, 10.5; diameter of umbilicus,
 2.0 mm. It has 4 % whorls.
Micrarionta harperi (Bryant 1900) Plate X, figs. 5-S.
1900. Epiphramophora harperi Bryant, Nautilus, vol. 13, p. 143.
1900. Epiphragmophora Harperi Bryant, W. Am. Sci., voi. 11, p. 30 (re-
 print of preceding).
1900. Epiphragmophora Harperi Orcutt, W. Am. Sci., vol. 11, no. 91, p.
 70; no. 92, p. 28 (brief note).
 sutures distinct; last whorl strong y descending behind peristome.
 Umbilicus wide and deep, contained about six times in the diameter
 of (he shell, funicular, permeable, all the whorls easily visible to
 the apex. Aperture strongly oblique, its deflexion about 45-50.
 Peristome but little thickened hardly reflexed except slightly at
 the umbilicus, which it barely indents. Nuclear whorls heavily
 covered with narrow, elongate papillae, ranked in oblique, forward
 slanting lines so close together as to be almost or quite confluent.
 the lines thus be ng transformed practically into low lirae; papillae
 on subsequent whorls less crowded and always smaller and rounder
 than the foregoing , being very obscure on the upper surface of the
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 95
last turn, minute, well spaced, and granular on almost the whole
 of the basal surface. Spiral sculpture wanting. Periostracum,
 except for the papillae and numerous fine lines of growth, smooth,
 thin, and lustrous. Shell white or very light ivory yellow, passing
 to avellaneous on the spire; a narrow fawn band, about 0.7 mm.
 wide encircling the shoulder, flanked both above and below by an
 obscure whitish band of approximately the same width.
Type Locality: "San Jacinto Mts., California" (Bryant).
No. of Specimens Locality Collector Where Deposited
4 Warner's Hot Springs, F. W. Bryant Cal. Ac. Sci. 8.676A
San Diego Co., Cal.
 2 do F. W. Bryant Berry Coll. 4,767
On a visit to the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco
 a year or two ago, it was a matter of great interest to discover among
 the material acquired by the Academy from the collection of the
 late Henry Hemphill, a small series of the little-known Epiphrag-
 mophora harperi Bryant, evidently authentic since received from
 Bryant himself. As the original description was only a short
 notice of a few lines, and nothing further regarding the species was
 ever published, I have ventured to redescribe it and to add figures
 of the best of the Academy specimens. More important still it is
 now possible to give Warner's Hot Springs as the locality, perhaps
 even the original locality, where the species was found, Bryant
 having obscurely recorded it as "San Jacinto Mts." Such des-
 scriptions and records surely were better never published, as they
 are sure to lead to misunderstandings and confusion, and much
 laborious research and waste of time to unravel the tangle. If the
 present specimens are truly originals, the present species can be
 established as a typical Eremarionta, although the peculiarities of
 the sculpture on the early whorls seem to have been pushed farther
 than in any other of the described species. M. orcutti Bartsch,
 however, is very close to this, and when better material of it can
 be found, it may prove to be identical. M. xerophila is another
 somewhat similar species, but is smaller, has a more lively colora-
 tion, and the umbilicus is much narrower, besides there being-
 manifest differences in the embryonic sculpture.
96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [VOL. LXXIV
With Bryant's description, as far as it goes, the specimens ex-
 amined show fair agreement. The chief discrepancies are in the
 number of whorls, which he gives as 5, his account of the first three
 whorls as smooth (conceivably because he did not use a sufficiently
 powerful lens), and, more disturbingly, his description of the peri-
 stome as "broadly expanded." He also states that the umbilicus
 is "about one-fifth" the diameter of the shell. I am hopeful that
 (he slightly larger size of his type specimen as compared with the
 present specimens and its evidently more adult condition are suf-
 ficient to account for most of the contrariety.
Micrarionta orcutti (Bartsch 1904)
1904. Sonorella baileyi orcutti Bartsch, Smiths, Misc. Coll., vol. 47, p. 96,
 pi. 33, fig. 5.
The type locality of this species is given by Bartsch as simply
 "in the Colorado desert." I once asked Mr. C. R. Orcutt, who
 collected the original specimens, if he possessed any more explicit
 data than this regarding their source. He informed me that he
 was no longer entirely certain, but believed the specimens described
 came from near Mountain Springs, Imperial County. If so, it
 ought not to be very difficult to rediscover the species. An immature
 specimen from the original lot kindly given me by Mr. Orcutt
 (Berry Coll. Cat. No. 3204) shows that orcutti is a characteristic
 Eremarionta in fact dangerously near to M. (E.) harperi Bryant,
 which is four years antecedent. 5 The nuclear sculpture is eroded
 on this specimen, but in good material may show valid differences
 from the very peculiar ornamentation of harperi. In their propor-
 tions, depressed outline, and wide umbilicus, the shells of the two
 forms are very close.
Genus HELMINTHOGLYPTA Ancey 1887
 Helminthoglypta tudiculata (Binney 1843) var.
1843. Helix tudiculata Binney, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., vol. 4. p. 360, pi. 20.
The occurrence of this characteristic species of the coastal and
5 Were it not for this fact the inclusion of so many of the desert snails in Mic-
 rarionta would necessitate the renaming of this species, for the prior Epiphrag-
 mophora orcutti Dall 1904, belongs with kellettii and stearnsiana in Pilsbry's
 division Xerarionta of the former genus. There will, however, be plenty of time
 to suggest a name for it after the rediscovery of the type locality enables us to
 establish whether or not it is really taxonomically distinguishable from M.
 harperi.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 97
interior valleys well within the desert drainage system 6 was wholly
 unexpected, but it is apparently a common species in Whitewater
 Canyon in the San Bernardino Mountains, where a live adult
 and 3 dead juvenals were taken at Station I, a live juvenal and
 9 dead shells of various ages at Station II, and an adult bleached
 shell at Station III. None of the shells is of the typical coastal
 form, nor do they seem exactly referable to the subdolus or rufiterrae
 types of the San Jacinto and San Bernardino Valleys, but the
 material is insufficient to justify one's saying more.
ZONITIDAE
 Genus ZONITOIDES Pilsbry
Zonitoides minuscula (Binney 1840)
1840. Helix minuscula Binney, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., vol. 3, p. 435, pi. 22,
fig. 4.
 1885. Zonites minusculus W. G. Binney, Man. Am. Land Sh., p. 19, 23, 25,
30, 31, 32, 35, 38, 57, 63, 479, fig. 18-20.
Two specimens of this species were taken in the drift of Palm
 Canyon at Station XII.
LIMACIDEA
Genus AGRIOLIMAX Morch 1868
 Agriolimax sp.
Ten specimens of a small slug thought to be referable to this
 genus were taken on a moist slope in Little Palm Canyon, but
 the specific determination is still uncertain. They have been
 deposited in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of
 Philadelphia.
PUPILLIDAE
 Genus GASTROCOPTA Wollaston 1878
 Gastrocopta pellucida hordeacella (Pilsbry 1890)
1890. Pupa hordeacella Pilsbry, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1890, p. 44, pi.
1, fig. g-k.
 1916. Gastrocopta pellucida hordeacella, Pilsbry, Man. Conch., (2), vol. 24,
p. 78, pi. 16; pi. 17, fig. 1-4.
A scant dozen specimens o this minute Gastrocopta, picked from
6 It is appropriate to mention, however, that species of this genus must cross
 into the desert drainage at several points, for Mr. Smith has collected H. cuyama-
 censis in the wash at Warner's Hot Springs, and has found a large race of it
 (H. c. loivei Bartsch) at an elevation of 5,500 ft. on the east slope of Hot Springs
 Mountain in the same region.
98
the drift of Palm Canyon at Station XII, represent a small, narrow,
 quite evenly cylindrical form, somewhat different from the majority
 of Arizona specimens (e.g., drift of Salt River near Tempe, collected
 by L. -E. Daniels; drift of San Pedro River near Benson, collected
 by H. A. Pilsbry and L. E. Daniels; foothills of Plumosa Range,
 Yuma County, collected by George S. Hutson) with which I have
 been able to compare them. Pilsbry 's original figure, drawn from
 a Texas specimen, differs in much the same way. The material
 is, however, too scanty to be considered as showing that the Palm
 Canyon specimens belong to a race or subspecies realty distinguish-
Figs. 1-4. Gastrocopta pellucida hordeacella (Pilsbry). Camera outlines of
 four specimens from Station XII, Palm Canyon, California, showing variation
 in contour of shell and form of denticles in aperture.
able from true hordeacella. The specimens are of most interest
 in that the known distribution of the group of Pupillidae which
 they represent is thus pushed many miles to the westward. Indeed
 it is thought that the species is recorded here from the state of
 California for the first time.
SUCCINEIDAE
Genus SUCCINEA Draparnaud 1801
Succinea avara Say 1824.
1824. Succinea avara Say, App. Long Exp., p. 2, 60, pi. 15, fig. 6.
 1885. Succinea avara Binney, Man. Am. Land Sh., p. 31, 33, 36, 59, 337,
 839, 497, fig. 369.
99
Two small specimens of this widespread species were taken
 under sticks at the margins of a springy spot at Station XVI in
 Palm Canyon.
PHYSIDAE
Genus PHYSA Draparnaud 1901
Physa sp.
Specimens of a small Physa, which I have not ventured to deter-
 mine specifically, were found at three stations in Palm Canyon:
 dead in the drift at Station XII, living among algae in Little
 Palm Creek (Station XIII), and in a spring at Station XV farther
 down the main canyon. At this last point they were noted to
 be quite abundant.
AMINICOLIDAE
 Genus PALUDESTRINA d'Orbigny 1S41
Paludestrina longinqua (Gould 1855)
1855. Amnicola longinqua Gould, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 5, p. 130.
 1857. Amnicola longinqua Gould, Pac. R. R. Rep., vol. 5, p. 333, pi. 11, fig.
10-11.
 1899. Paludestrena longinqua Pilsbry, Nautilus, vol. 12, p. 122.
A single minute shell tak-
 en in the drift of Palm Can-
 yon at Station XII has some-
 what the aspect of a small
 Amnicola, but is probably
 merely a juvenal of the wide-
 spread P. longinqua, so com-
 mon in the semi-fossil state
 in the Cahuilla Basin, and
 known living from various
 localities in the Cuyamaca
 Mountains and elsewhere. A
camera drawing of the pres- _ Fi S 5 - Paludestnna longinqua (Gouid)?
 ... . , Camera outline of juvenal shell from Sta-
ent specimen is appended. tion XII, Palm Canyon, California.
Explanation of Plates VIII, IX, X.
Note: The microphotographs of periostracal sculpture reproduced in the
 accompanying plates were made by Mr. John Howard Paine. The remaining
 specimen photographs were made by Messrs. John Howard Paine and Berton
 W. Crandall. The illustrations on Plate VIII, and fig. 1 of Plate IX, are from
 field photographs taken by the author.
Plate VIII.  Fig. 1.  Lower Whitewater Canyon, San Bernardino Mountains,
 California, looking north. Stations I and III of the present paper are at
 the base of the canyon wall in the distance at the left. The two palms in
 the foreground are probably the westernmost endemic specimens of Neo-
 washingtonia filamentosa Sudw. Photograph taken April 1, 1920.
Fig. 2.  South slope of small side canyon tributary to Whitewater Canyon,
 San Bernardino Mountains, California. Station II, the type locality of
 Micrarionta aquae-albae, is under the small tree to the right of the center
 of the picture. Photograph taken April 1, 1920.
Fig. 3.  Looking down Little Palm Canyon, Riverside County, California,
 from a point on the east wall above the junction with the main canyon;
 a characteristic habitat of the snail, Micrarionta wolcottiana. Stations
 XI and XIII are near the center of the picture. The desert slopes of the
 San Jacinto Range above Palm Springs loom in the background. Photo-
 graph taken April 3, 1920.
Plate IX.  Fig. 1.  Looking up the main fork of Palm Canyon, Riverside
 County, California, from a point near its junction with Little Palm Creek.
 The abundant palms are Neowashingtonia filamentosa Sudw. Stations X
 and XII are visible in the nearer distance. Photograph taken April 3,
,. 192 -
 Figs. 2-4.  Micrarionta aquae-albae n. sp. Three views of the type specimen,
from Station II, Whitewater Canyon, California; x 4.
Fig. 5.  Micrarionta aquae-albae n. sp. Upper surface of part of body
 whorl of type specimen a little back of the aperture, greatly magnified
 to show the periostracal sculpture; enlarged about 18 diameters.
Fig. 6.  Micrarionta aquae-albae n. sp. Greatly magnified view of apical
 whorls of specimen from Station I, Whitewater Canyon, California,
 showing the periostracal sculpture; enlarged about 18 diameters.
 Plate X.  Figs. 1-3.  Micrarionta xerophila n. sp. Three views of type speci-
 men from Station VII, west of Indian Well, California; x 2.
Fig. 4.  Micrarionta xerophila n. sp. Greatly magnified view of apical
 whorls of type specimen, showing the periostracal sculpture; enlarged
 about 19 diameters.
Figs. 5-7.  Micrarionta harperi Bryant. Three views of specimen collected
 by Bryant at Warner's Hot Springs, California; Cal. Ac. Sci. 8676A; x 2.
Fig. 8.  Micrarionta harperi Bryant. Greatly magnified view of apical
 whorls of same specimen, showing the periostracal sculpture.
KEELEYITE, A NEW LEAD SULFANTIMONITE FROM ORURO, BOLIVIA.
By Samuel G. Gordon.
The Oruro district of Bolivia has long been known to miner-
 alogists by the excellent crystals of andorite, stannite, and other
 rare minerals which the mines have produced. The present paper
 is descriptive of a new lead sulfantimonite, keeleyite, which was
 obtained on the Vaux-Academy Andean Expedition of 1921.
The silver-tin mines of Oruro are situated in the hills at the
 western edge of the town, and are three in number: the Socavon,
 the San Jose, and the Itos. The keeleyite was obtained at the
 San Jose mine.
The ore-veins are essentially pyritic bodies forming fissure fillings
 in a quartz-porphyry, and the dark Paleozoic slates into which
 the porphry has been intruded. The principal minerals are pyrite,
 light-brown massive cassiterite, tetrahedrite, and jamesonite(?).
 Andorite and stannite are extremely rare.
The exact mode of occurrence of the keeleyite is not known,
 as the single specimen brought back was obtained at the cancha
 of the mine. This specimen, measuring 3 X 5 X 7 inches, is a mass
 of cavernous quartz, studded with small white quartz crystals.
 The cavities contain sheaf-like aggregates of acicular crystals
 of keeleyite, some pyrite, and an undetermined sulfide.
General Description. Keeleyite is dark gray in color, and gives
 a grayish-black streak. The luster of the mineral is bright metallic.
 The hardness is about 2. The specific gravity was determined
 in H 2 Oin a 5 cc. pycnometer and gave the value 5.21 .
The mineral occurs in aggregates, usually radiating, of acicular
 crystals which may measure an inch in length. The crystals are
 deeply striated and furrowed, due in part, perhaps, to parallel
 growth. No measurable crystals were found, but the mineral
 is probably orthorhombic.
Keeleyite fuses at 1, and gives the same reactions before the
 blowpipe, etc., as the other lead sulfantimonites. A white sublimate
 of antimony oxide is obtained by heating in the closed tube, while
 dense white fumes are obtained in the open tube. The mineral
 is almost entirely volatilized on charcoal, with the formation of a
(101)
102
PROCEEDING OF THE ACADEMY OF
[Vol. LXXIV
coating which is yellowish near the assay, and white farther out.
 Globules of lead are obtained by reduction with soda in the R. F.
 Composition. A preliminary determination of lead gave 27.78%
 Pb. A complete analysis (shown in Table I) was then made by
 Dr. J. Edward Whitfield on 1.25 grams of carefully selected acicular
 crystals. It was impossible to free the needles from some sulfides
 and quartz. The loss of 1.18% in the analysis is due to the
 latter mineral. Column II shows the analysis after deducting
 8.15% sulphides, and recalculating to 100%. The ratios of the
 constitutents are shown in column III, and approximate Pb : Sb : S
 = 2:6:11, corresponding to Pb ? Sb 6 S or2PbS.3Sb 2 S 3 .
Table I. Analysis of Keeleyite
I. Analysis of keeleyite by Dr. J. Edward Whitfield. The 1.18% loss is clue
 to quartz.
II. Analysis of keeleyite recalculated after deductiag 8.15% sulfides.
III. Ratios of II.
IV. Theory for Pb 2 Sb 6 S u or 2PbS. 3Sb 2 S 3 .
The mineral thus belongs to the "Acidic Division" of Dana,
 with a ratio of PbS : Sb 2 S 3 of less than 1 : 1. Although no "Acidic"
 lead sulfantimonite has heretofore been discovered, an analagous
 sulfbismuthite, rezbanyite, has long been known:
Rezbairyite 2PbS.3Bi 2 S 3
Koeleyite 2PbS.3Sb 2 S 3
The relation of keeleyite in composition to the other lead sulf-
 antimonites is shown in Table II, and Figure 1.
Table II.
Keeleyite
Zinkenite
Plagionite
Heteromorphite
Plumosite
Semseyite
Boulangerite
Embrithite
Meneghinite
Geocronite
The Lead Sulfantimonites
2PbS.3Sb 2 S 3 Orthorhombic?
PbS.Sb 2 S 3
5PbS.4Sb 2 S 3
7PbS.4Sb 2 S 3
2PbS.Sb 2 S 3
9PbS.4Sb 2 S 3
5PbS.2Sb 2 S 3
3PbS.Sb 2 S 3
4PbS.Sb2S 3
5PbS.Sb 2 S 3
Orthorhombic
 Monoclinic
 Orthorhombic
 ?
103
Fig. 1. Diagram showing the composition of the lead sulfantimonites.
The writer takes pleasure in naming this mineral in honor of
 Mr. Frank J. Keeley, Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections
 of the Academy.
 CELESTITE, AND CALCITE FROM FRANKLIN, NEW JERSEY
On a recent trip to the famous zinc mines at Franklin, N. J.
 the writer secured a series of specimens for the Vaux Collections
 which included the following
 minerals: calcite, celestite, ga-
 lena, glaucochroite, hardy-
 stonite, willemite, and zincite.
 Crystallographic measure-
 ments of the glaucochroite,
 willemite and calcite showed
 the presence of new forms;
 while the celestite represents
 a new occurrence of this
 mineral.
Glaucochroite
Glaucochroite was described
 by Penfield and Warren 1 in
 1899. The original specimens
 consisted of small prismatic
 crystals in nasonite. As no
 terminal planes were found,
 the twin-plane (Oil) was used
 in calculating the axial ratios.
 Subsequently Palache 2 de-
 scribed briefly the results of
 measurements on two ter-
 minated crystals.
The specimens which form-
 ed the basis of the present
 study are far superior to those
 which have been heretofore
 found. Several large masses
 of franklinite- willemite ore Fig. 1. Glaucochroite, Franklin, N. J.
 contain fractures lined with small glaucochroite crystals associ-
m
'Am. J. Sci. 8, 343-346, 1899.
 2 Am. J. Sci. 29, 181-182, 1910.
(105)
106
ated with greenish-white crystals of willemite. The glaucochroite
 is readily identified by the remarkable fact that the mineral is
 bluish-green by daylight, but pink by artificial light. The largest
 crystals measure 2 mm. in length.
Four crystals were measured the results being given in Table I.
 Six forms are new: r (130), z (270), d (101), k (Oil), 1 (131,) and
Figs. 2-3. Glaucochroite, Franklin, N. J.
y (122). The relative development of the faces and their position
 are shown in figures 1 to 4.
Three types of crystals occur; these will be designated below as
 Types I, II, and III (figs. 1, 2, and 3, respectively).
Type I (figure 1) is of rare occurrence, being limited to the
 smaller cavities where the conditions were most favorable to perfect
 growth The crystals show a well-developed prismatic zone, in
 which there may be an oscillation of a (100), and m (110) ; terminat-
 ed by a large, dull, and apparently etched dome, k(011); about
 which is a prominent zone including d (101), e (111), f (121), and
 1 (131).
Type II (figure 2) shows also a well-developed prismatic zone
 but the dominant terminal form is the pyramid f (121); h (021) and
107
b (010) show some oscillation, giving raise to characteristic
 striations on the latter form. This type shows great irregularities,
 due to parallel growth with other individuals.
Type III (figure 3) was seen on some microscopic mounts. The
 tops of the crystals show a small crater with a jagged edge; the
 inner faces of which are irregular, and apparently curved. Ensconced
 in the crater is a small pyramid, probably f (121). The form b
 (Oil) is horizontally striated.
The polar elements, p Q and q were calculated from the average
 angles of the forms d (101), h (021), e (111), f (121), 1 (131), m (110)
Table I. Angle Table of Glaucochroite
a:b :c=0,4606:l : 0.5899
 p = 1. 2806; q = 0.5899
Letter
Symbol
 Miller Gds.
No. of
faces
Measured
9 ?
Calculated
cp p
b
a
 m
-z
*d
 x
*k
 h
 e
 f
*1
00 00 4
 90 02 7
 65 1311
 47 1819
 36 2851
 32 12
 90 03 6
00 1816
 00 03  5
 65 1439
 47 19 6
 35 52 7
 47 04
90 0010
 89 54 6
 89 57 6
 ^0 04 7
89 39 26
90 16
51 55 7
30 22 6
 49 56 5
 54 44 24
 60 12 14
 65 23  6
 41 02
00 00
 90 00
 65 16
 47 21
 35 53
 31 49
 00 00
90 00
 52 01
 23 07
 30 32
 49 43
 54 39
 60 OS
 65 24
New forms marked *
and s (120). The axial ratios were obtained from these values.
 The results are not concordant with those of Penfield and Palache :
a :b :c = 0.440 : 1
 .4409 : 1
 .4606 : 1
0.566 (Penfield)
 .5808 (Palache)
 .5899 (Gordon)
108
Fig. 4. Gnomonic projection of glaucochroite forms.
The last value approaches that of tephroite, as shown in the
 following table, in which all the members of the Olivine group
 are listed in the order of increasing length of the a-axis:
The refractive indices of one of the crystals measured were
 higher than n 1.740, so that the present mineral is probabty inter-
 mediate in composition between glaucochroite and tephroite.
WlLLEMITE
One of the specimens obtained consisted essentially of frank-
 linite and willemite on which was a cavity containing a number
 of brilliant, greenish, transparent, highly modified crystals of
 willemite associated with glaucochroite. A single crystal, ^ x 1 mm.
 was measured. The general habit of the 'crystals is indicated in
109
Fig.
Willemite, Franklin, N. J.
figure 1. Several of the forms are new: v (4223), K (3142) ; (9.1.10.0),
 and (10.1.9.0); v and K were present as prominent faces, although
 v occurred but once on the crystal measured; the other two forms
 were represented by line faces in the prism zone.
110
Table II. Willemite, Franklin, N. J.
 c = .6679; p6 = .4453 (Palache and Graham)
Celestite
While appreciating the greatness of Franklin, N. J., as a mineral
 locality, and the extreme variety of minerals that have been dis-
F*g. 6. Celestite, Franklin, N. J
19221
111
covered there, it was still with considerable surprise to the writer
 that the material described here proved to be celestite, SrS0 4 .
 The specimen consists of part of a vein of pink rhodochrosite
 on a mass of calcite through which is disseminated much franklinite.
 The rhodochrosite, which is quite crystalline, is filled with solution
 cavities which are coated with druses of brilliant colorless crystals,
 rarely over 1 mm. in size. The mineral was found to be biaxial,
 positive; * = 1.621,  = 1.625, T = 1.631; all  .003. A single
 crystal was measured with the results given in Table III. The
 habit of the crystal measured is shown in fig. 2; other crystals
 were tabular parallel to c (001).
Table III. Celestite, Franklin, N. J.
Calcite
 The calcite occurs as a cavity lining on a calcite-zincite mixture
Fig. 7. Calcite, Fianklin. N. J.
112
which forms laminations in an ore consisting of franklinite and
 reddish serpentine. The crystals are rarely over 1X3 mm. in
 size; but are colorless and give good reflections. The habit of
 of the crystals is indicated in figure 7. Two forms are new:
 (3.0.3.16) and (3.0.3.16).
Table IV. Calcite, Franklin, N. J.
 PENNSYLVANIA, ARKANSAS, AND BOHEMIA.
 Wavellite usually occurs as hemispherical or globular aggregates
 with a radiated crystalline structure, or very rarely as druses
 of minute crystals. The crystallographic data on the mineral are
 rather unsatisfactory due to the small size of the crystals heretofore
 found and their imperfect character. On the 1921 Vaux- Academy
 Expedition to the Andes, the writer obtained large slabs of beautiful
 prismatic crystals measuring up to 2 X 3 X 6 mm. This material
 forms the basis of this investigation. A study was also made of
 the other specimens of wavellite in the collections, with the meas-
 urement of crystals from Pennsylvania, Arkansas, and Bohemia.
Crystals of wavellite were first measured by Senff 1 from Frank-
 enberg, Saxony. These showed the following forms: b (010),
 m (110), n (340), q (13.1.0), p (101), s (111), and o (121).
Des Cloizeaux 2 noted the following forms on wavellite from
 Montebras, France: b (010), m (110), n (340), s (111), and the
 doubtful form r (5.11.6).
Cesaro 3 described wavellite from Arbrefontaine, Belgium, with
 the forms b (010), a (100), m (110), s (111), o (121), and p (101).
 He suggested that the doubtful form r (5.11.6) of Des Cloizeaux
 was probably o (121).
Further examination of a crystal from Montebras by Ungemach 4
 gave in addition the forms h (310), and 1 (430).
Ungemach also measured good crystals from Moore's Mill,
 Cumberland County, Pennsylvania, 5 which showed the combination
 b (010), a (100), m (110), 1 (430), i (320), h (320), o (121), and s(lll).
Finally, Wherry 6 listed the following forms on crystals from
 Hellertown, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania: b (010), a (100),
 1 (430), m (110), n (340), p (101), s (111), and o (121).
The axial ratios obtained by these writers are listed in Table I.
 A new value determined on crystals from Bolivia is given in Table II.
l J. Senff; Pogg. Annalen, 18, 474, 1830.
 2 A. Des Cloizeaux; Manuel de Mineralogie, II, 455, 1874.
 3 G. Cesaro; Mem. Acad. Roy. Belgique, 53, 28, 1896.
 4 H. Ungemach; Bull. Soc. Franc. Min. 35, 536, 1912.
 6 Erroneously given as Cly, York County, Penna., which was the site of the
 factory to which the mineral was shipped.
6 Edgar T. Wherry; Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 54, 379, 1918.
(113)
114
Wavellite, Llallagua, Bolivia
The Llallagua tin mines are situated on the northeast slope of
 Cerro de Llallagua, about . 100 kilometers southeast of Oruro,
 Bolivia. The deposits are phenomenal, and form the richest known
 mines of cassiterite. The ore bodies are distinct fissure fillings, or
Fig. 1-3: Wavellite; 1. Llallagua, Bolivia; 2. Trimble's Mine, Chester
 County, Pennsylvania; 3. Hellertown, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania.
mineralized brecciated zones, in a quartz-porphyry which forms the
 core of the mountain. The principal metallic minerals are cassit-
 erite, pyrite, wolframite, and bismuthinite.
The wavellite occurs locally in vugs in the quartz-pyritic portions
 of the veins. Frequently three generations of wavellite crystals
 are to be seen.
The crystals are colorless, the smaller individuals being quite
 limpid. The luster is vitreous, excepting on the unit prism m
 (110), which is pearly. The mineral also occurs at Llallagua in
 pale greenish stalactitic masses. The largest specimen in the
 Vaux Collections is a slab measuring 25 X 35 cm., and entirely
 covered with wavellite crystals. The crystals show the usual
 tendency to form subparallel aggregates, with distinct individuals
 in the cavities.
Preliminary measurements were made on twelve crystals, of
 which half were rejected due to subparallel growth present in the
115
crystals, or to poor reflections. The results of the measurements
 of the others are given in Table II.
The following forms were noted, (fig. 1) : a (100), b (010), m (110)
 w (650), 1 (430), B (10.7.0), z (850), and p (101), of which w, B,
 and z are new. Their characters in brief are: a (100) exists as a
 very narrow face; b (010) is a large brilliant face which usually
 gives multiple reflections; m (110) is a wide pearly face, free of
 striations, and usually giving fair, bright reflections; w (650), 1
 (430), B (10.7.0), and z (850) are line faces forming a striated zone
 between m (110) and a (100); p (101) is a wide, deeply striated
 dome, giving a series of multiple reflections, of which the p angle
 is fairly constant.
The average coordinate angles of m (110) and p (101) were used
 to determine the axial elements given at the top of Table II.
The cleavage of wavellite was given by Senff as parallel to p
 (101) and b (010) rather perfect; and by Des Cloizeaux as parallel
 to m (110) and b (101). The only cleavage noted by the writer
 was a very perfect one parallel to m (110).
Table II. Wavellite Forms, Llallagua, Bolivia
a :b : c = .5520 : 1 : .4067
 po = .7365; qo = .4067
Wavellite, Trimble's Mine, Pennsylvania
Trimble's mine is the famous locality for wavellite listed in the
 older books as "White Horse Station, Chester County." The old
 abandoned limonite pit so described is situated about a mi l e
 northwest of Planebrook Station on the Philadelphia and Chester
 Valley branch of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad, in Chester
116
County. The mineral occurred in the form of white stalactitic
 masses of cryptocrystalline to crystalline structure, and occasionally
 in druses of very minute crystals.
A single crystal measuring 3^8 by 3^ mm. was measured. The
 results are given in Table III. The following combination of forms
 was noted, fig. 2: b (010); m (110), B (10.7.0), N (210), f (520),
 and y (122); of which B, N, f, and y are new.
A crystal measured by Dr. Edgar T. Wherry 7 from this locality
 showed the following forms: b (010), a (100), i (320), 1 (430),
 m (110), n (340), p (101), and o (121).
Table III. Wavellite Forms, Trimble's Mine, Pennsylvania
Wavellite, Hellertown, Pennsylvania.
As noted above, crystals from the Hellertown locality, Lehigh
 County, were described by Wherry. As the material collected
 by the writer at this mine were different in habit from those already
 described, a single crystal, | X 1 mm. in size was therefore measured.
 The results are given in Table IV.
The following combination was found b (010), in (110), o (121),
 and y (122). The dominant pyramid y (122) is a new form.
Table IV. Wavellite Forms, Hellertown, Pennsylvania
New form marked *
7 Private communication.
117
Wavellite, Moore's Mill, Pennsylvania
The wavellite from Moore's Mill, Cumberland County, Penn-
 sylvania was described and figured by Ungemach. The locality is
 an abandoned wavellite mine about a mile south of Moore's
 Mill Station.
Two crystals were measured by the writer. The results are
 given in Table V. The following forms were noted: a (100), b
 (010), c (001), m (110), w (650), R (970), 1 (430), i (320), N (210),
 h (310), k (510), t (710), g (270), and o (121), of which c, w, R,
 N, k, t, and g, are new. The habit of the crystals is like those
 of Ungemach, and the new forms excepting g are line faces
 occurring in the striations between a (100) and m (110) of his
 figure; g is a line face between b (010) and m (110).
Table V. Wavellite Forms, Moore 's Mill, Pennsylvania
Let-
 ter
Form
Miller Gds.
 meas-
 ured
9 P
Signal
Wavellite, Montgomery County, Arkansas
Montgomery County, Arkansas, is the most famous of the
 American localities for wavellite. It produced in abundance
 beautiful green radiating aggregates of the mineral in fissures
 in a sandstone. Frequently the radiations terminate in druses
 of small crystals.
A single crystal was examined, but gave very poor reflections.
 The forms noted were b (010), m (110), and p (101); the latter
118
was striated. The habit of the crystals is similar to that of
 Llallagua (fig. 1).
Crystals from the same locality measured by Dr. Edgar T.
F'g. 4. Gnomonic projection of all wavellite forms.
119
Wherry 8 showed the following forms: b (010), a (100), h (310),
 1 (430), m (110), n (340, u (130), p (101), and s (111).
Wavellite, Zbirow, Bohemia
A single crystal from a druse associated with radiations of the
 mineral from Zbirow, Bohemia, was measured. The faces were
 very dull, and gave poor reflections. The following forms were
 noted b (010), m (110), and p (101). The latter was not striated.
Table VI. Wavellite Angle Table
Orthorhombic; a : b : c = .5520 : 1 : 4067
 po = .7365; q =.4067
8 Private communication.
studies in malayan, melanesian and australian
 tettigoniidae (orthoptera).
By Morgan Hebard.
In 1920 the author published a first paper, dealing with that
 part of the collections here treated which covered the section be-
 longing to the family Mantidae. 1
Though the present paper is considerably larger, the number 01
 species of Tettigoniidae known from the regions under consideration
 is very much greater and, as a result, the present work is not
 intended to be in any way monographic. A number of difficulties
 have been cleared up and the proper sequence of species in some
 places we feel is now defined.
Much work remains to be done, and the Tettigoniidae of these
 regions must be monographed before the student will be able to
 determine material in small series. The literature on the group
 is too vast and scattered to be accessible, unless a great amount of
 preliminary work has been done; and reference to a large and
 comprehensive library is a constant necessity. In order to aid in
 locating the literature, particularly that subsequent to Kirby's
 Catalogue, numerous references have been given in the present
 study.
All of the material here recorded, unless otherwise stated, is in
 the author's collection at The Academy or Natural Sciences of
 Philadelphia, with the exception of duplicate specimens from
 Mr. C. F. Baker, representing species not in his collection; such
 will be forwarded to him whenever desired. Five hundred and
 thirty-one specimens are recorded, representing ninety-four genera
 and one hundred and ninety-one species, of which fourteen genera,
 one subgenus, seventy-three species, and one subspecies, are new.
 Unfortunately, the great majority of species are represented by
 but one or two specimens.
We have found that Wallace's line separates quite as large a
 percentage of species of Tettigoniidae as of the Mantidae, clearly
 delimiting the Malayan from the Melanesian fauna.
1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1920, pp. 14 to 82.
(121)
122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Accurate and full descriptions of the genitalia have been found
 of the greatest importance. Failure by Brunner and Redtenbacher
 to describe these parts adequately constitutes one of the most
 serious defects in their monographs. The accuracy and finish
 shown in the accompanying figures, particularly of the Listroscelid
 genitalia, are due to the exceptional skill of Miss Mary B. Lane.
 We are deeply indebted to her for the unusual effort which was
 required in reproducing these indescribably intricate parts.
We have given the number of spines on the ventral femoral
 margins for many species, not because we believe the exact number
 to be diagnostic for any species, but because each species will
 probably be found to have a definite range in number and develop-
 ment 2 of such spines, often differing from that of its nearest re-
 latives. In some groups we have already found these spines to be
 decidedly variable in certain species, quite constant in others. In
 our studies of the South American species of the genus Conocephalus,
 where we had large series of many species, the range in a species of
 such spines was found to constitute a valuable aid.
PHANEROPTERINAE
Group Elimaeae
Elimaea insignis (Walker)
1869. Phaneroptera insignis Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., II,
 p. 344. [<? , Silhet-.]
Khasia Hills, Assam, 1 cf, 1 9.
The treatment, by Brunner, of material from Assam, as the
 synonymous annulata, 3 is much more satisfactory than Walker's
 diagnosis.
 Elimaea annamensis new species. Plate XI, figures 1 and 2.
This relatively large species is of a general pale green coloration,
 excepting the dorsal surface of the head, pronotum and tegmina,
 which is uniform dark reddish brown, and the antennae, which are
 of a similar dark color ventrad, slightly paler dorsad and show a
 few, very small and widely separated, pale annuli distad.
It is very closely related to E. schmidti Krausze, described from
 the same locality. 4 It differs from that species in having the occiput
 and pronotal disk dark, in the shorter pronotum, more elongate
 tegmina and decidedly more elongate limbs.
Six species have been described as members of the genus Elimaea
2 Highly specialized spines tjccur on the ventral femoral margins in the
 Pseudophyllid genus Morsimus and its allies.
3 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 92, pi. I, figs. 10, a to d, (1878).
4 Ins.-Borse, XX, p. 2, (1903).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 123
from Than-Moi, Tonkin, alone, by Krausze and Carl. We are
 told by Dohrn 5 that one of the former's species is referable to
 Hemielimaea and another to Ducetia. We believe, however, that
 the numerical abundance of the species of Elimaea in Indo-China
 is very large.
In Brunner's key 6 the species runs nearest to appendiculata
 Brunner. The insect is large, with comparatively broad tegmina
 for the genus, though not as large or with tegmina as broad as in
 E. insignis (Walker).
Type: cf; Phuc-Son, Annam. November to December. (From
 H. Fruhstorfer.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 783.]
Cephalic femora slightly compressed and distinctly curved in a
 Phasmoid manner; dorsal surface convex, but with its internal
 margin weakly ridged, except in the more slender proximal portion.
 Cephalic coxae unarmed. Foramina of cephalic tibiae flattened
 conchate. Tegmina with median vein branching at end of proximal
 third, this branch sending three branches to the sutural margin
 distad. Pronotal disk with surface weakly convex to flattened
 caudal portion, lateral margins very broadly and evenly concave,
 the least width of disk meso-cephalad; lateral lobes slightly longer
 than greatest (caudal) depth, ventral margin weakly concave in
 cephalic half, weakly convex in caudal half, these portions forming
 a very weak rounded angulation at their juncture. Tegmina and
 wings fully developed, the former with greatest width decidedly
 greater than pronotal length, narrowing very slightly and evenly
 to the broadly rounded apex. Femora with genicular lobes bi-
 spinose. Caudal femora with dorsal surface deplanate in proximal
 three-quarters. Ventral femoral margins armed with minute
 but rather broad spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 11 and 12,
 cephalic external 6, median internal 0, median external 15, caudal
 internal and 1, caudal external 12 and 15. Supra-anal plate
 elongate shield-shaped, with apex narrowly acute-angulate. Cerci
 cylindrical, curved and gradually tapering to near apex, where
 they are briny enlarged, the external margins showing weak emar-
 gination at base of this enlargement, the apical enlarged portion
 with a low, longitudinal ridge extending to the apex, which there
 projects as a short, stout tooth. Subgenital plate elongate and
 slenderly produced, cleft for slightly over half its length, the two
 distal portions thus formed slender, parallel, curving very weakly
 dorsad, of nearly equal width in distal portions to their rounded
 apices.
Occiput and disk of pronotum victoria lake, this continued along
 the sutural margin of the tegmina as a broad suffusion, narrowing
 and disappearing near their apices. Disk of pronotum showing a
6 Stett. Ent. Zeit., LXVI1, p. 352, (1906).
 6 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 91, (1878).
124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
slightly paler coloration medio-longitudinally. Other portions
 probably light green in life, now yellowish with tegmina strongly
 tinged with green. Antennae blackish victoria lake ventrad,
 slightly paler dorsad; showing distad two widely spaced, very
 small buffy annuli. Tegmina with very minute flecks of victoria
 lake in all areas between veins of discoidal field, these more nu-
 merous toward sutural margin and mesad. Tarsi tinged with
 brown.
Length of body (squeezed out) 30, length of pronotum 5.2, least
 width of pronotal disk 2, greatest (caudal) width of pronotal disk 3,
 greatest (caudal) depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.4, length of
 pronotal lateral lobe 4, length of tegmen 39, greatest width of
 tegmen 7.2, width of tegmen near apex, 5.7, length of cephalic
 femur 10.2, length of caudal femur 28 mm.
The type of this handsomely colored insect is unique.
Elimaea lamellipes new species. Plate XI, figure 3.
This species is closely related to E. caricifolia Haan, 7 described
 from Loetontoer, Borneo. Brunner 8 indicated that his E. femorata,
 described from Borneo, might represent that species. After
 careful comparison of the original descriptions, we follow Dohrn
 who, in 1906, placed femorata in synonymy under caricifolia.
The present insect differs in the generally smaller size, with
 tegmina much narrower. Compared with the female, described
 by Brunner as femorata, further decided difference is found in the
 median vein of the tegmina, which does not branch mesad, the
 tegmina which do not widen distad and the median femora which
 are not carinate dorsad. 9
Type: 9 ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
 Type no. 784.]
Cephalic femora very strongly compressed and strongly curved
 in a Phasmoid manner, lamellate dorsad except in immediate
 proximal portion, this formed by the external margin which longi-
 tudinally shows a broad convexity. Cephalic coxae unarmed.
 Foramina of cephalic tibiae flattened conchate. Face, to clypeal
 suture, strongly swollen. Tegmina with median vein branching
 at end of proximal two-fifths, this branch sending two branches to
 the sutural margin distad. Pronotal disk with surface flattened,
 showing very feeble convexity cephalad, lateral margins very
 broadly concave but showing irregularity by a minute emargination
 a1 the principal sulcus, caudad of this the disk is defined from the
7 Verh. Nat. Gesch. Nederl. overzee. bezitt., Zool., Ins., p. 195, (1842).
8 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 98, (1878).
9 This latter feature may, however, be due to an error in description No
 species of FJiimua is known to us having the median femora carinate like the
 cephalic femora.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 125
lateral lobes by a strong but rounded angulation. Lateral lobes
 of pronotum with length equal to greatest (caudal) depth, ventral
 margin very broadly convex. Tegmina and wings fully developed
 the former with greatest width decidedly greater than pronotal
 length, narrowing slightly and evenly to the broadly rounded apex.
 Femora with genicular lobes bispinose, except the external of the
 caudal femora which are unispinose. Caudal femora with dorsal
 surface deplanate in proximal two-thirds. Ventral femoral margins
 armed with very minute spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 8
 and 9, cephalic external 11, median internal 0, median external 14
 and 16, caudal internal 0, caudal external 7 and 8. Supra-anal
 plate very elongate, symmetrically trapezoidal, the lateral margins
 showing traces of concavity, the truncate apex with margin showing
 a trace of bilobation. Ovipositor curved dorsad, this slightly
 strongest proximad, apex rounded; lateral faces with faint trans-
 verse rugae distad, dorsal margin serrulate to near base, ventral
 margin serrulate in distal portion, the distal serrulations all rounded.
 Subgenital plate very small, triangular, with apex broadly truncate.
General coloration pale green. Antennae pale ventrad, suffused
 with brown dorsad in proximal portions (remainder missing).
 Tegmina with extremely numerous but exceedingly minute brown
 flecks in areas between the veinlets in the discoidal field, these
 fewer between median vein and its branch and absent between
 proximal portions of median and ulnar veins. Dorsal portions of
 lateral lobes of pronotum with minute dark brown dots, these
 more numerous at the juncture with the disk, which is defined by
 a faint yellowish line. Median limbs with small dark brown dots
 on external surface, cephalic and caudal limbs similarly marked
 with subobsolete dots. Tarsi tinged with brown.
Length of body (squeezed out) 23.5, length of pronotum 4.1,
 least width of pronotal disk 2.1, greatest (caudal) width of pronotal
 disk 2.8, greatest (caudal) dspth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.3,
 length of pronotal lateral lobe 3.3, length of tegmen 35, greatest
 width of tegmen 7.1, width of tegmen near apex 5.3, length of
 cephalic femur 7.7, length of caudal femur 20.7, length of ovi-
 positor 6.4 mm.
The type is unique.
Elimaea bakeri 10 new species. Plate XI, figures 4, 5 and 6.
The present insect belongs to that section of the genus including
 forms with relatively less constricted pronotal disk and broader
 tegmina. It shows nearest agreement with the specimen de-
 scribed by Brunner as paru?npunctata (Serville) 11 differing in the
10 Named in honor of Professor C. F. Baker, Dean of the College of Agriculture,
 University of the Philippines, through whose kind assistance a large portion of
 the material here studied, has been secured.
11 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 98, (1878). That specimen, a female from
 the Philippines, we do not believe represents Serville's parumpunctata, described
126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
coloration of the antennae, pronotum and limbs, while, though of
 the opposite sex, the tegmina are shorter and narrower and the
 caudal femora shorter, showing a differentiation in these proportions
 greater than we believe can be attributed to sexual differentiation.
The present is a medium large species, in life probably of a pale
 green coloration, the lateral margins of the pronotal disk outlined
 in a series of brown flecks, the tegmina with brown flecks, the
 cephalic and median femora proximo-externally splotched and
 necked with brown and the median and caudal tibiae with a
 proximo-external fleck of the same color. 12
The male subgenital plate is forked to near its base and divided
 into two strongly recurved, almost flagellate, processes, which
 proximad are embraced by the cerci.
Type: cf ; Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 785.]
Size and form medium for the genus. Cephalic femora rather
 strongly compressed and curved in a Phasmoid manner, lamellate
 dorsad except in immediate proximal portion, this formed by the
 external margin which longitudinally shows a very weak con-
 vexity. Cephalic coxae each armed with a very small spine.
 Foramen of cephalic tibiae conchate, deplanate dorsad and strongly
 flattened laterad. Face to clypeal suture somewhat swollen,
 bounded on each side by a broadly and shallowly concave area.
 Tegmina with median vein branching mesad, this branch sending
 two branches to the sutural margin distad. Pronotal disk with
 surface flattened, lateral margins very broadly and evenly concave.
 Lateral lobes of pronotum with length slightly greater than greatest
 (caudal) depth; ventral margin horizontal, almost straight, curving
 gently into the ventro-cephalic and ventro-caudal angles. Tegmina
 and wings fully developed, the former with greatest width de-
from a female from Java (Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 418, (1839).) Dohrn, recog-
 nizing this difference, has named the species brunneri and has described very
 briefly the male sex. That sex is seen to differ from the male of baker i in having
 the supra-anal plate sharply acute distad, the cerci apparently more simple and
 not embracing the subgenital plate (Stelt. Ent. Zeit., LXVII, p. 348, (1906).)
 Unfortunately Karny overlooked this and has again renamed the species brunneri
 (Zool. Mededeel. Rijks Mus. Nat. Hist. Leiden, V, p. 183, (1920).) It would
 appear that Haan, describing a Javanese male as parumpunctata Serville, really
 had that species (Verh. Nat. Gcsch. Nederl. overzee. bezitt., Zool., Ins., p. 192,
 (1842).) If this is true, parumpunctata is a species belonging to t hat section of
 the genus in which the pronotal disk is more decidedly constricted and the
 tegmina narrower.
u To this species, E. puncticosta Bolivar (Asoc. Espanola Prog. Cienc, Sec. 4a,
 Cien. Nat., Junio, p. 8, (1913)) is apparently also related, differing, however,
 in a number of important features. It is unfortunate that that author chose
 to describe as new an imperfect female of this genus which contains so very many
 species and more unfortunate that such important measurements as the pronotal
 width, proportions of its lateral lobes and tegminal width were not given.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 127
cidedly greater than the pronotal length, scarcely narrowing to
 the broadly rounded apex, the curvature of which is stronger
 toward the costal than toward the sutural margin. Femora with
 genicular lobes bispinose, except those of caudal femora which are"
 unispinose. Caudal femora with dorsal surface deplanate in prox-
 imal half. Ventral femoral margins armed with very minute
 spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 13 and 14, cephalic external
 8 and 10, median internal 0, median external 17, caudal internal 0,
 caudal external 11 and 13. Supra-anal plate very elongate, sym-
 metrically trapezoidal the lateral margins weakly convergent in
 proximal two-thirds, thence parallel but distad curving broadly
 into the truncate apex. Cerci elongate, cylindrical, curving
 inward, gradually and very feebly enlarging in proximal fourth,
 thence gradually tapering to near apex where they are suddenly
 thickened and truncate, the ventro-internal portion produced in a
 broad, acute, knife-like plate, resembling the dactyl of a mole-
 cricket. Subgenital plate very elongate, curving evenly dorsad
 with apices above distal portion of abdomen; cleft to near base
 and sulcate to base itself, the two processes thus formed slender
 and tapering, weakly divergent in proximal half, thence cylindrical
 weakly convergent and armed on the dorsal surface 13 with very
 minute teeth to their closely adjacent apices.
General coloration yellowish brown, probably pale green in life.
 Antennae light brown ventrad, darker dorsad, with weakly defined
 dark annuli. Head immaculate. Pronotum with a series of
 blackish flecks and dots along area of intersection of disk and
 lateral lobes. Tegmina with an occasional fleck of dark brown
 in areas between veins of distal portion of section between median
 vein and its branch and throughout medio-ulnar section, areas
 between veins in ulnar-anal section with very numerous, exceed-
 ingly minute, dark brown flecks. Cephalic and median femora
 with a small longitudinal blotch and a few flecks of dark brown
 proximad on the external face near the ventral margin. Median
 and caudal tibiae with a minute fleck of dark brown proximad on
 the external face.
Length of body 22, length of pronotum 4.7, least width of
 pronotal disk 2.4, greatest (caudal) width of pronotal disk 3.3,
 greatest (caudal) depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.9, length of
 pronotal lateral lobe 4.1, length of tegmen 36.2, greatest width
 of tegmen 6.2, width of tegmen near apex 6, length of cephalic
 femur 8.1, length of caudal femur 25 mm.
Elimaea filicauda new species. Plate XI, figure 7.
This insect resembles more closely E. parumpunctata (Serville)
 in general form, but shows a type of genitalic specialization agreeing
13 Due to the curvature of the plate this surface, in the distal portion, faces
 ventrad.
128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
rather with that of E. bakeri here described and E. brunneri Dohrn.
 To the latter species closer relationship is shown.
The male, however, may be quickly recognized by the great
 length of the two recurved, filiform processes into which the sub-
 genital plate, cleft to its base, is produced.
Type: d" : Los Bafios, Laguna, Luzon, Phillipine Islands. Octo-
 ber 21, 1914. (E. F. Banzou.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 855.]
Size medium, form very slender for the genus. Cephalic femora
 and foramina of cephalic tibiae as described for bakeri. Cephalic
 coxae unarmed. Face to clypeal suture flattened, with lateral
 concave areas weaker than in bakeri. Tegmina very narrow,
 scarcely widening distad; median vein branching shortly before
 median point, this branch sending two branches to the sutural
 margin distad. Pronotum narrower but otherwise quite similar
 to that of bakeri, except that the ventro-cephalic angle of the lateral
 lobes is sharp, forming an angle very slightly greater than ninety
 degrees; lateral margins of pronotal disk rounded, parallel on
 prozona, then diverging evenly and weakly to caudal margin.
 Tegmina and wings fully developed, very narrow, the former
 slightly narrower than the pronotal length except in stridulating
 field, showing very faint widening to distal portion; apex well
 rounded, median in position. Genicular lobes of cephalic femora
 bispinose; of median femora unispinose, rounded, (caudal femora
 missing). Ventral femoral margins armed with very minute
 spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 8 and 8, cephalic external 0,
 median internal 0, median external 2. Supra-anal plate declivent,
 linguliform, distinctly over twice as long as basal width, with apex
 rounded. Cerci as described for bakeri, but tapering from the base
 and slightly more slender. Subgenital plate cleft to base, the
 lateral portions slender, narrowing evenly and produced caudad
 some distance, then curved dorsad and directed dorsad as two
 extremely elongate, nearly straight, thread-like processes, their
 apices reaching to the dorsal margins of the tegmina when these
 are in repose, their apices faintly thickened.
General coloration buffy tinged with green, probably pale green
 in life. First joint of antennae buffy, tipped with brown (other
 portions missing). Head showing traces of a postocular yellowish
 line on each side, this continued along lateral margins of pronotal
 disk with minute scattered dots of dark brown (particularly ex-
 ternally), caudal margin of disk with regularly spaced dots of the
 same. Tegmina Veronese green, stridulating field and costal
 margin very narrowly buffy, areolae between median vein, its
 branch and ulnar vein, with brown flecks mesad, toward sutural
 margin the minute intervals between the veinlets are brown but
 inconspicuous, ^ephalic femora with a few flecks of dark brown
 on externa] face near ventral margin, this weaker on median
 femora; spines dark brown.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 129
Length of body 17, length of pronotum 4.3, least width of pro-
 notal disk 1.8, greatest (caudal) width of pronotal disk 2.7, length
 of pronotal lateral lobe 3.2, greatest (caudal) depth of pronotal
 lateral lobe 3.1, length of tegmen 34.7, median width of tegmen
 4.2 width of tegmen near apex 4.2 length of cephalic femur 8.2,
 length from base to tip of subgenital plate 8.6, approximate actual
 length of subgenital plate 14 mm.
Elimaea parumpunctata (Serville) Plate XI, figures 8 and 9.
1839. Phaneroptera parumpunctata Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 418.
[9, Java,]
 1842. L[ocusta] parumpunctata Haan, Verh. Nat. Gesch. Nederl. overzee.
bezitt,, Zool., Ins., p. 192. [d 1 , Java.]
Batu Sangkar, Padangische Bovenland, Sumatra, August and
 September, 1901, (Harrison and Hiller), Id 71 , [Acad. Nat. Sci.
 Phila.].
We have commented upon this species on page 125, footnote 11.
 For the individual before us we would note the following features:
 Head immaculate. Pronotum constricted, the disk with surface
 distinctly concave caudad and with lateral margins concave suf-
 fused with brown and necked with blackish, the lateral portions of
 the caudal margin narrowly black. Lateral lobes of pronotum
 very slightly longer than deep, ventral margin very weakly convex.
 Tegmina very narrow, widening slightly in distal portion to the
 rounded apex; median vein branching mesad, entire anal field
 velvety blackish, showing a maroon tinge, this continued very
 narrowly but solid to near end of sutural margin, adjacent intervals
 between veins with very numerous minute flecks of this color, other
 areas between veins of discoidal field usually with one or more
 similar flecks mesad, except in distal portion. Median femora
 with a larger brown fleck proximad on the external surface. Ce-
 phalic femora with spines and surface at their immediate bases
 embrowned. Limbs elongate and slender. Cephalic femora
 curved in a Phasmoid manner, with dorso-external margin de-
 cidedly lamellate except in proximal portion. Auditory foramen
 of cephalic tibiae conchate, but flattened dorsad and laterad.
 Ventral margins of femora armed, as follows. Cephalic internal 7
 and 8, cephalic external 7 and 8, median internal 0, median external
 11 and 12, caudal internal 0, caudal external 6 and 7. Genicular
 lobes of femora bi dentate, except the cephalic internal, one median
 external and one caudal external, which are unidentate. Supra -
 anal plate small, slightly longer than wide, evenly rounded distad.
 Cerci comparatively short, simple, curving evenly inward to the
 aciculate apex. Subgenital plate comparatively short, cleft in
 distal third, the slender apical fingers thus formed separated by a
 narrowly U-shaped interval.
Length of body 17, length of pronotum 4, least (meso-cephalic)
 width of pronotal disk 1.2, greatest width of pronotal disk 2.4,
130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
length of tegmen 34.4, least (median) width of tegmen 4.3, greatest
 (distal) width of tegmen 4.8, length of cephalic femur 9.6, length of
 caudal femur 23.7 mm.
Elimaea roseo-alata Brunner. Plate XI, figures 10 and 11.
1891. Elimaea roseo-alata Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, XL1,
 p. 49. [ 9 ; Deli, Sumatra.]
Goenong Soegi, Lampond, Sumatra, October and November,
 1901, (Harrison and Hiller), lcf, [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.].
We do not agree with Dohrn in considering roseo-alata a synonym
 of parumpunctata (Serville).
The following characters are given for the hitherto undescribed
 male sex. Tegmina widest meso-proximad, narrowing strongly
 mesad, then very slightly to the broadly rounded apex; anal field
 dark brown, with veinlets light brown; discoidal field light brown
 with very numerous minute flecks of dark brown toward anal
 vein and larger (twenty or more) flecks mesad in areolae of discoidal
 field. Wings with veins pink and intervening portions hyaline
 and strongly (pink and green) iridescent. Dorsal surface of ab-
 domen pink. Tibiae suffused distad. Supra-anal plate nearly
 twice as long as proximal width, lateral margins weakly convergent
 proximad, then nearly parallel, rounding into the truncate apex.
 Cerci cylindrical, strongly curved inward, particularly distad,
 there tapering sharply off into a long, sharp, slightly curved, apical
 spine. Subgenital plate elongate, tapering strongly proximad,
 the long and narrow shaft beyond with lateral margins very weakly
 concave, the apex itself rather deeply cleft; the two portions thus
 formed projecting latero-distad and acute-angulate.
 notum 1.3, greatest (caudal) width of pronotum 2.7, length of
 tegmen 30, greatest (meso-proximal) width of tegmen 6.4, least
 (distal) width of tegmen 3.8, length of cephalic femur 8, length of
 caudal femur 21.8 mm.
Mirollia aeta new species. Plate XI, figures 12 and 13.
This insect is readily distinguished from the Javanese genotype,
 carinata, by its smaller size, weak though distinct limb spination
 and, in the male sex, the strikingly distinctive genitalic special-
 ization. 14
A full generic diagnosis has been given by Brunner. 15
14 It is very possible that the female recorded by Karny as M. carinata (Haan),
 from Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, represents this species (Philip-
 pine Jour. Sci., XVIII, p. 6 IS, {1921).)
16 Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 106 and pi. I, figs, a to c, (1875).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 131
Type: c? ; Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From
 C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 786.]
Size small, form compact, limbs short. Vertex weakly silicate
 and moderately declivent to acutely rounded apex, which is
 strongly sulcate to the apical marginal border and fails to extend
 cephalad as far as the plane of the face by half the width of the
 first antennal joint. Maxillary palpi very elongate, fourth joint
 two-thirds as long as the third, fifth two and one-half times as
 long as the fourth. Margin of pronotal lateral lobes broadly
 convex from the rather deep humeral sinus to the ventro-cephalic
 angle. Metanotum hyaline and swollen beneath the stridulating
 field of the tegmina. Dorsal abdominal tergites unspecialized, but
 those proximad thickly supplied with fine hairs. Supra-anal plate
 very small and inconspicuous. Cerci very elongate, curving weakly
 outward, then strongly inward distad; shaft swollen proximad,
 then tapering, the distal portion slender and cylindrical to the
 bifid apex. Apex itself rounded conical, with a projection at its
 base on the inner side slightly more slender but twice as long,
 tapering to a minute uncinate tooth, which is curved ventrad.
 Subgenital plate tapering strongly proximad, thence elongate and
 slender but extending caudad only as far as proximal two-thirds of
 cercus; apex deeply and narrowly V-emarginate, the slender fingers
 thus formed very delicate, with apices rounded. Genicular lobes
 of femora rounded. Ventral femoral margins with the following
 minute spines distad. Cephalic internal 2 and 3, cephalic external
 0, median internal 0, median external 3 and 3, caudal internal 1
 and 1, caudal external 4 and 5.
General coloration pale yellowish green, probably pale green in
 life. Antennae with first two joints suffused with whitish dorsad
 and with large brown suffusions ventrad, succeeding joints with
 homologous brown suffusions, which become rapidly weaker and
 disappear distad. Pronotum with symmetrically arranged streaks
 of heavier pigmentation and with a minute brown fleck between
 the sulci on each side of the median carina. Tegmina immaculate
 except for a small brown suffusion mesad in the stridulating field.
 Limbs immaculate except for a brown line on each side of the
 enlarged proximal portions of the cephalic tibiae.
Length of body 14, length of pronotum 4.7, length of pronotal
 lateral lobe 3.4, greatest (caudal) height of pronotal lateral lobe
 3.4, length of tegmen 21.2, width of tegmen 5.7, length of cephalic
 femur 3.8, length of caudal femur 11.8, length of cercus 5 mm.
The type of this interesting species is unique.
Mirollia cerciata new species. Plate XI, figures 14, 15 and 16.
This insect agrees closely with M. aeta here described, in general
 form, but is quickly separated by the very different vertex, punctate
 tegmina and distinctive male genitalia.
Type: c? ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
 Type no. 787.]
132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Vertex sulcate proximad, thence suddenly and sharply declivent,
 the distal portion represented by a delicate rounded ridge, which
 fails to extend cephalad as far as the plane of the face by half the
 width of the first antennal joint. Maxillary palpi elongate but
 much shorter than in aeta, fourth joint slightly shorter than third
 and slightly over half as long as fifth. Margin of pronotal lateral
 lobes less broadly and evenly convex than in aeta, with humeral
 sinus weaker, the ventro-caudal angle broadly but more strongly
 rounded and the ventral margin thence nearly straight to the
 ventro-cephalic angle. Metanotum hyaline and swollen beneath
 stridulating field of tegmina. Median segment with a transverse
 proximal ridge adjacent to that area. First abdominal tergite
 with a large round area mesad which is deeply covered with a wax-
 like substance, second tergite with a smaller but similar area,
 third tergite with a much smaller and weaker area. Supra-anal
 plate very small and inconspicuous, rounded trigonal, with dorsal
 surface concave and lateral margins wrinkled mesad. Cerci very
 elongate, very weakly sigmoid except distad where they are strongly
 curved inward, shaft swollen and gradually enlarging in proximal
 half, this swelling occurring on the internal portion only, thence
 tapering and slender to the incurved, enlarged and bluntly rounded
 apex, at the base of which proximad is a small process directed
 distad and parallel to the true apex, beyond which it projects
 slightly and is there terminated in a small, chitinous, sharply
 decurved tooth. Subgenital plate extending caudad to near cereal
 apices, narrowing gradually in proximal portions and thence medio-
 longitudinally caiinate, deeply and very narrowly V-emarginate
 distad, the broad fingers thus formed with apices more strongly
 convex externally than internally. Limbs as in aeta. Ventral
 femoral margins with the following minute spines distad. Cephalic
 internal 0, cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median external
 and 3, caudal internal and 1, caudal external 2 and 3.
 and with large brown suffusions ventrad, remaining portions
 yellowish with weakly defined, narrow, suffused brown annuli.
 Stridulating field of sinistral tegmen showing a large median suf-
 fusion of dark brown; other portions of tegmina with a small but
 visible fleck of blackish brown mesad in all the larger areolae
 except distad in scapular field and with all the countless and
 microscopic intervals between the veinlets toward the sutural
 margin black, these areas so minute that they are invisible to the
 naked eye and do not even cause the tegmina to there appear darker
 in shade. Pronotum with all but lower portions of lateral lobes
 showing a profusion of minutely microscopic brown dots and with
 one larger, though minute, brown dot between the transverse sulci
 on each side of the median carina. Cephalic femora with a weak
 suffusion and flecks of brown proximad on the external surface.
 Cephalic tibiae with enlarged proximal portions suffused with
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 133
brown and with a dark brown line on each side. Other portions of
 limbs immaculate.
Allotype: 9 ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with male except that the pronotum lacks all but
 the larger of the minute flecks. Ovipositor broad, angularly bent
 upward in proximal portion, greatest width meso-distad, apex
 rotundato-truncate; ventral margin evenly convex, very minutely
 serrulate at apex, dorsal margin very minutely serrulate except in
 brief proximal portion. Subgenital plate quadrate-emarginate
 meso-distad, the lateral portions rotundato-acute-angulate.
Length of body d 71 14, 9 15; length of pronotum a 71 4.6, 9 4.1;
 greatest (caudal) depth of pronotal lateral lobe d 71 3.3, 9 2.8;
 length of pronotal lateral lobe d 71 3.3, 9 2.8; length of tegmen
 & 20, 9 20.7; width of tegmen d 1 5.7, 9 5.5; length of cephalic
 femur d 71 3.7, 9 3.7; length of caudal femur cf 11, 9 11; length of
 male cercus 5.2, length of ovipositor 5.3, greatest width of ovi-
 positor 2.7 mm.
The species is known from the described pair.
Ducetia thymifolia (Fabricius)
1775. L[ocusta] thymifolia Fabricius, Syst. Ent., p. 283. [New Holland
 (= Australia).]
Chandkhira, Silhet, Assam, 1 d 71 .
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 2 9 .
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 d 71
Baguio, Benguet, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 d".
Los Banos, Laguna, Luzon, Phillipine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 <? .
Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
2 9.
Malinao, Tayabas, Luzon, Phillippine Islands, (from C. F.
 Baker), 1 tf .
The Mount Makiling individual is the only wholly brown speci-
 men in the present series, the others showing various types of the
 green color phase.
PROHIMERTA new genus.
This genus is an aberrant member of the Group Letanae, as the
 cephalic tibiae do not entirely lack dorsal spines. In general
 appearance the insect agrees best with species of Letana Walker,
 (of which Pyrrhicia Stal is a synonym), differing in the even broader
134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
tegmina with distinctive venation, spinafcion of the cephalic tibiae
 and different type of male genitalic devlopment. Nearest actual
 agreement, however, is with Himerta, the male genitalia being
 similar in type, but Prohimerta differs in the weakly sulcate vertex,
 lateral lobes of pronotum which are not longer than high, much
 larger size, much longer and broader tegmina (with branches of the
 median vein strongly oblique, as in the genus Phaula Brunner) and
 spination of the cephalic tibiae.
Though the dorsal margins of the cephalic tibiae bear a few spines,
 the sudden constriction beyond the auditory foramina and the male
 genitalic development show the position of the genus to be in the
 Group Letanae and not in the Group Ducetiae.
Genotype.-  Prohimerta annamensis new species.
Cephalic coxae unarmed. Pronotum with disk flattened and
 caudal margin broadly convex, the lateral lobes roundly inserted
 but with angulation distinct, humeral sinus distinct. Vertex
 weakly sulcate and declivent to the rounded, horizontal distal
 extremity, which is separated by a considerable gap from the small,
 erect, rounded frontal fastigium. Male subgenital plate without
 styles, deeply cleft, with the fingers thus formed nearly parallel.
 Cephalic tibiae with apert auditory foramina, these members
 there stout but suddenly constricted beyond; sulcate dorsad
 bearing a proximo-external, meso-distal-external and on each side
 a distal very small spine. Pronotum and limbs, except caudal
 tibiae, rather thickly supplied with very small, stiff, short, erect
 hairs. Tegmina decidedly wider than pronotal length with
 branches of median vein strongly oblique. Prosternum unarmed.
 Mesosternum weakly lobate, metasternum sublobate.
Prohimerta annamensis new species. Plate XI, figures 17, 18 and 19.
This is a striking species, due to the conspicuous pale annuli of
 the dark antennae, the dotted tegmina and dark cephalic feet and
 caudal tibiae.
Type: cf; Phuc-Son, Annam. November and December.
(From H. Fruhstorfer.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 788.]
Head with occiput convex. Eyes prominent, globose. Maxil-
 lary palpi with fourth joint two-thirds as long as third and slightly
 over half as long as fifth. Pronotal sulci distinct on lateral lobes,
 principal sulcus indicated on disk by a median Y-shaped impression
 with arms convex and base short. Tegmina and wings fully de-
 veloped, extending well beyond apices of caudal femora. Tegmina
 broad, narrowing very slightly to the broadly rounded apex;
 ulnar vein reaching sutural margin very slightly beyond median
 point; median vein sending four oblique branches to that margin.
 Femora with genicular lobes bispinose, the spines of the median
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 135
external and caudal external lobes very small. Ventral femoral
 margins armed with minute spines, as follows. Cephalic internal
 4 and 4, cephalic external 4 and 6, median internal 0, median
 external 6 and 7, caudal internal and 1, caudal external 8 and 8.
 Supra-anal plate very small, triangularly convex, deflexed between
 the cereal bases. Cercus with base small, stout conical, its apex
 produced inward in a sharp, slender blade nearly twice the length
 of the shaft, directed at right-angles to the shaft; this blade is
 longitudinally tri-lamellate and curves evenly and weakly to its
 sharp apex. Subgenital plate strongly narrowing at base, the
 distal portion very deeply and narrowly cleft and extending caudad
 of the cerci; the fingers thus formed stout, with external surface
 moderately supplied with short hairs and internal surface very
 thickly supplied with very short, erect hairs.
General coloration of tegmina and exposed portions of wings
 light green (in life probably including body and limbs), faded to
 yellowish brown over greater part of other portions. Head with
 vertex pinkish and two postocular suffusions of pinkish brown on
 each side. Antennae beautifully annulate, each of these annuli
 first briefly blackish brown, then fading over a considerable space
 to pinkish brown, terminated by a brief buffy area; these annuli
 become more elongate distad in strongly increasing ratio. Teg-
 mina green, stridulating field pinkish brown, caudad of it a paler
 area and the pinkish brown narrowing beyond along the sutural
 margin and disappearing mesad; intervals between veins minutely
 flecked with brown, these flecks clustering to form distinct small
 patches at considerable intervals mesad between the veins. Ce-
 phalic femora and proximal portions of cephalic tibiae heavily
 suffused and dotted with brown, distal portions of cephalic limbs
 darkened. Median and caudal limbs with many minute dots of
 brown, the tibiae with a dark proximal fleck externally, caudal
 tibiae in large portion and caudal tarsi very dark.
Length of body 20, length of pronotum 4.8, least width of pro-
 notum 2.2, greatest (caudal) width of pronotum 3.2, length of
 pronotal lateral lobe 3.8, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.9,
 length of tegmen 31.2, greatest width of tegmen 7.8, least width
 (near apex) of tegmen 7, length of cephalic femur 7.3, length of
 caudal femur 26.7 mm.
Letana brunneri (Krausze)
1904. Pyrrhizia brunneri Krausze, Insekten Borse, XXI, p. 29. [ 9 ;
 Than-Moi, Tonkin.]
Phuc-Son, Annam, (from H. Fruhstorfer), 1 9 .
This specimen agrees closely with the original description except
 that the pronotal disk is not only punctate with a dull pink, but is
 also medio-longitudinally suffused with the same color, while the
 pronotal length does not equal the tegminal width. The femora
136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
are armed with very minute spines along their ventral margins,
 as follows. Cephalic internal 3 and 4, cephalic external 0, median
 internal 0, median external 3, caudal internal 8 and 10, caudal
 external 10 and 12. The subgenital plate is rather broadly truncate
 and sub-bilobate distad.
 Scambophyllum albomarginatum new species. Plate XII, figure l.
This species is related to the Sumatran S. sanguineolentum
 (Westwood). Females before us differ from females of that species
 in the narrower tegmina, which narrow gradually distad from the
 median point, with meso-proximal concavity of the costal margin
 decidely less and in the flattened subsulcate dorsal surface of the
 cephalic femora. Difference in coloration is shown by the broad
 white ventral margins of the pronotal lateral lobes and the narrow
 white costal margins of the tegmina.
Type: 9 : Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 805.]
Vertex represented by a small rounded, subsulcate projection,
 not extending as far cephalad and a very brief distance above the
 more narrowly rounded facial fastigium. Pronotum short, disk
 rounding broadly into lateral lobes, broader than long, with
 transverse sulci decided, its caudal margin broadly convex and
 showing faint angulation mesad; lateral lobes with ventral margin
 weakly oblique and very broadly convex (straight in paratype),
 caudal margin weakly oblique to the broad and weakly indicated
 humeral sinus. Tegmina very narrowly elongate-oval, narrowing
 gradually from the median point to the broadly rounded apex,
 the costal margin showing a broad and weak concavity meso-
 proximad; mediastine vein very weak, but as heavy as the more
 than usually heavy transverse veins; discoidal vein curving to
 costal margin at end of its proximal three-fifths; median vein
 straight to costal margin near apex, branching at base of distal
 curvature of discoidal vein, this branch nearly longitudinal and
 running to apex; ulnar vein with a proximal branch running to
 median vein, this branch from that point running parallel to ulnar
 vein to opposite branch of median vein, there ceasing; the ulnar
 vein itself running nearly parallel to the median vein and
 branch. Wings Gryllacroid, parachute -like, not full and thus
 apparently showing incipient atrophy. Ovipositor strongly re-
 curved at base, broad, broadly rounded at apex, disk distad sca-
 brous, dorsal margin in distal portion and ventral margin toward
 apex with heavy triangular teeth. Subgenital plate triangular
 with broad truncate apex rounded, chitinous only in narrow mar-
 ginal portions. Genicular lobes and ventral margins of femora
 unarmed. Caudal tibiae unspined dorsad, armed distad with a
 dorso-lateral minute pair of spurs and a median pair of heavier
 spurs.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 137
Head biscay green, face yellowish, a very broad postocular bar
 of mummy brown which is continued on the sides of the body
 below the pronotum. Antennae with proximal joints marked
 with blackish, in remaining portions black with light buff, widely
 spaced annuli, of which the second is much the largest, occupying
 three joints. Pronotum biscay green, the lateral lobes very broadly
 margined ventrad with cream color, this showing traces of mars
 brown along its inner margin. Tegmina serpentine green with
 countless microscopic flecks of dark vinaceous (the intervals between
 the very closely packed veinlets), costal margin white, with a
 slightly narrower internal border of dark vinaceous, sutural margin
 more broadly black between the brown veins, this occupying all
 of the anal field. Wings apricot buff, the anterior field suffused
 with acajou red and the transverse veins of the radiate field strongly
 defined in that color. Abdomen washed with acajou red dorsad.
 Ovipositor green, suffused with brown distad. Limbs green and
 brown, the tibiae with dark dorsal margins, the femora tipped
 dorsad with black, with a white area immediately preceding and
 in strong contrast.
Length of body 27 and 19 (the latter specimen shrunken, the
 measurements of the type being given first), length of pronotum
 4.5 and 4.7, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.8 and 4.9, length of
 tegmen 26.8 and 24, greatest (median) width of tegmen 8.7 and
 6.9, meso-distal width of tegmen 7 and 5.8, length of cephalic femur
 9.8 and 9.6, length of caudal femur 17.8 and 16.4, length of ovi-
 positor 8.2 and 8.1 mm.
A female paratype, bearing the same data as the type, is before us.
Scambophyllum sanguineolentum (Westwood)
1848. Phylloptera sanguineolenta Westwood, Cab. Oriental Ent., p. 52,
 pi. XXV, fig. 3. [<?, 9 ; Sumatra.]
Goenong Soegi, Lampong, Sumatra, October and November,
 (Harrison and Hiller)j 1 juv. & , [A.N.S.P.].
This small immature individual is dark brown, beautifully marked
 with buff and white. There is no question that it represents the
 genus, but we can not say with certainty the same for the specific
 determination. One species only, however, has been recorded from
 Sumatra.
 Scambophyllum sandakanae new species. Plate XII, figures 2, 3 and 4.
The unicolorous wings and lateral margins of pronotal disk
 defined by dark markings are striking features of difference in this
 insect. In addition, though the emargination of the costal margins
 of the tegmina is more sudden even than in S. sanguineolentum
 (Westwood), these organs taper more strongly distad even than in
 S. albomarginatuni here described, with venation more delicate and
 different in several important respects.
138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The present appears to be a dully colored species, showing none
 of the brilliant and striking contrasts found in the other known
 forms of this extraordinary genus.
Type : 9 ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F. Baker.)
 [Hebard Collection, Type, no. 806.]
Agrees with albomarginatum except as follows. Vertex more
 sulcate, distinctly so. Pronotum slightly longer than broad, with
 lateral margins of disk defined from lateral lobes by color, though
 not bjr contour. Tegmina broader, with a strong sub-angular
 concavity of the costal margin meso-proximad thence narrowing
 more strongly to the more strongly rounded apex, the sutural mar-
 gin showing greater convexity, the axis of the distal portion of the
 tegmen being at a slight angle to the axis of its proximal portion;
 mediastine and transverse veins much weaker, scarcely visible to
 the naked eye, principal veins proportionately weaker; discoidal
 vein curving to costal margin at end of its proximal two-thirds;
 median vein showing a weak angulation mesad, reaching costal
 margin near apex, branching at base of distal curvature of disco-
 idal vein and again distad, its first branch forked dbtad, these
 branches curving but in large part longitudinal; ulnar vein follow-
 ing margin of anal field for two -thirds its length, thence longitu -
 dinal, running straight to sutural margin at base of distal third.
 Wings with area proportionately slightly less, contour slightly
 more parachute-like. Caudal tibiae with dorso-distal spurs absent
 on all but one side of one tibia, (present on all in paratype).
Allotype : cf ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Size decidedly smaller than female. Vertex more distinctly
 sulcate, the apex of the facial fastigium also sulcate. Pronotal
 disk as long as broad. Stridulating field of tegmina large, with
 stridulating vein very short and heavy; concavity of costal margin
 weaker; distal portion of tegmina tapering much more strongly to
 the more sharply rounded apex; first branch of median vein not
 forked. Ultimate tergite broadly and narrowly concave above
 the rotundato-trigonal supra-anal plate, which is slightly broader
 than long. Cerci moderately stout, straight, cylindrical, tapering
 slightly to the apex which is armed with a single sharp tooth,
 directed inward at slightly less than a right angle to the shaft.
 Subgenital plate short, simple, transverse, with distal margin
 convex.
General coloration greenish yellow, (discolored, probably green
 in life). Antennae suffused with brown and showing small, widely
 spaced, buffy annuli. Head with a broad, irregular postocular
 suffusion of mummy brown, this continued on lateral lobes of
 pronotum, proximad there extending to near the ventral margin,
 the dorsal margin of this marking, though not continuous, clearly
 defining the lateral margins of the pronotal disk. Tegmina with
 areas between veins of anal field, except meso-distad, prouts
1922 1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 139
brown, this continued as a narrow black margin around the apex;
 other portions of tegmina, including costal margin, uniform
 greenish yellow. Wings unicolorous, vinaceous-buff, the anterior
 field tinged with the greenish yellow of the tegmina. Limbs much
 as described for albo marginatum, except that the pale pre -apical
 dorsal markings of the femora are buffy.
Length of body tf 16, 9 21.3; length of pronotum & 3.8, 9 4.7;
 caudal width of pronotal disk cf 3.8, 9 4.2; length of tegmen
 c? 17, 9 23; greatest (median) width of tegmen d 1 7.7, 9 8.8;
 meso-distal width of tegmen a 71 5, 9 6; length of cephalic femur
 c? 8.4, 9 9.8; length of caudal femur cf 14, 9 18; length of ovi-
 positor 7.2 mm.
Acrypeza reticulata Guerin.
1829. Acrypeza reticulata Guerin, Voyage de La Coquille, II, part II, p. 152,
 Atlas Zool., Ins. pi. X, figs. 2 and 2a. [[cfl; Port Jackson, Australia.]
Jenolan, New South Wales, Australia, (from H. de Saussure),
2(^,2 9, [A. N. S. P.].
Leptodera ornatipennis Servllle.
1839. Leptodera ornatipennis Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 410. [cf,
 Java.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 9 .
Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf.
The best figure of this extraordinary and handsome insect is
 that given by Saussure, as the synonymous Euparthenus gratiosa. 16
Length of body cf 28, 9 30; length of pronotum cf 9, 9 9;
 least (cephalic) width of pronotum cf 1.8, 9 1.8; greatest (caudal)
 width of pronotum cf 4.2, 9 4.2; length of tegmen cf 40, 9 44;
 median width of tegmen cf 15.7, 9 18; greatest (distal) width of
 tegmen & 18.8, 9 20.3; length of cephalic femur cf 5.8, 9 7;
 length of caudal femur cf 17.8, 9 20.3; length of ovipositor 8.9 mm.
Ancylecha fenestrata (Fabricius) Plate XI, figure 20.
1793. L[ocusta] fenestrata Fabricius, Ent. Syst., II, P- 34. [East India.]
Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 d".
This handsome insect, which in form reminds one of species of
 the New World genus Stilpnochlora, is readily recognized by the
 lamellate spinose plates on the limbs and the striking crescentric
 markings on the tegmina.
The male cerci have not been described, they are figured in the
 present paper. The bluntly serrate dorsal lamella of the distal
 arm is chitinous and dark, in striking contrast to the pale shaft.
16 Rev. Suisse Zool, pi. IX, fig. 9, (1898).
140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Length of body 30, length of pronotum 9.7, greatest (caudal)
 width of pronotum 6.8, length of tegmen 66.4, greatest width of
 tegmen 25.5, length of caudal femur 35 mm.
Phygela haani Still. Plate XI, figures 21 and 22.
1876.. P[hygela] haani St&l, Bih. K. Svenska Vet.-Akad. Handl., IV,
 No. 5, p. 57. [ 9 , Malacca, [Malay Peninsula].]
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker),
 2 d\3 9.
The previously unknown male of this species shows the following
 genital characters: supra-anal plate elongate linguliform, deflexed
 between the cerci. Cerci elongate, cylindrical, tapering to the
 apex which is bifid, each of these projections armed with a tooth,
 the more distal projection heavier and with apical tooth larger.
 Subgenital plate elongate, extending slightly beyond cereal apices,
 tapering strongly proximad, thence weakly to apex which is rather
 strongly though transversely emarginate, this emargination sym-
 metrically trapezoidal, the short lateral projections cylindrical and
 supplied with very slightly more slender, straight styles, which are
 about three times as long as wide.
Length of body c? 24 and 23, 9 29 to 30; length of pronotum
tf 6.2 and 6.3, 9 6.9 to 7.1; length of tegmen & 38.7 and 41.2,
9 46.9 to 49; greatest (meso-distal) width of tegmen d" 10.9 and
11.8; 9 13.8 to 14; length of caudal femur <? 25 and 25.7, 9 29 to
30.2; length of ovipositor 10.4 to 10.2 mm.
Arnobia pilipes (Haan)
1842. L[ocusta] (Phaneroptera) pilipes Haan, in Temminck, Verh. Nat.
 Geschied. Nederl. oversee, bezitt., Zool., Ins., p. 194. [ 9 , Japan. 17 ]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 cf .
The male genitalia of this interesting katydid have been de-
 scribed by Rehn, 18 from a specimen taken at Bah Soemboe, Sumatra.
Tapiena cerciata new species. Plate XI, figures 23 and 24. 19
The present insect is distinguished from the previously known
 species of the genus by its larger size and broader tegmina. The
 male ultimate tergite is not produced and in this respect agrees
 with the Sumatran T. truncata (Brunner).
Type: cf 1 ; Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 792.]
17 There is practically no doubt that this locality was given in error, the genus
 not having been subsequently found north of Borneo.
18 Bull. Arner. Mus. Nat. Hist., XXVI, p. 192, (1909).
19 Brunner's Tapeina is preoccupied by Tapeinus Laporte, 1832, and Tapiena
 lias been proposed by Bolivar to replace it {Mem. Soc. Espan. Hist. A r at., I,
 p. 334, (1906).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 141
Occiput and pronotum strongly impresso-punctulate, femora and
 other portions of head less strongly so. Occiput flattened, very
 weakly convex; vertex very small, narrowing strongly and sulcate
 proximad, the apex thickened, convex and subattingent to frontal
 fastigium, nearly half as wide as the proximal antennal joint.
 Pronotal disk deplanate, scarcely wider caudad than cephalad;
 lateral lobes vertical and forming a sharply rounded angle with the
 disk, slightly higher than wide. Tegmina and wings fully de-
 veloped. Tegmina broad, narrowing gradually distad to the
 rounded apex; ulnar vein sending three branches to the sutural
 margin; median vein branching distinctly proximad of its median
 point and with one more distinct, oblique, distal branch, the first
 branch forking before its median point. Supra-anal plate small,
 elongate, rounded triangular, deflexed between the cereal bases.
 Cerci large, base briefly cylindrical, the ventral margin thence
 curving evenly to the acute apex, the dorsal margin strongly pro-
 duced and lamellate, the knife-edge thus formed rounding to base
 in proximal portion, thence evenly and gradually narrowing and
 concave to the recurved apex. Subgenital plate elongate but not
 extending as far as the cereal apices, tapering strongly proximad,
 thence weakly to apex, which is rather strongly transversely emar-
 ginate, this emargination rotundato-quadrate, the short lateral
 projections cylindrical and supplied with slightly more slender,
 straight styles, which are about seven times as long as wide.
 Ventral femoral margins armed with small teeth as follows. Ce-
 phalic internal cf 4, 9 3 and 4; cephalic external 0; median in-
 ternal 0; median external d 1 0, 9 1 and 1; caudal internal c? 4,
 9 3 and 5; caudal external cf 5, 9 4 and 5. Genicular lobes of
 femora rounded and unarmed.
Allotype: 9 ; Dapitan, Zamboanga District, Mindanao, Phi-
 lippine Islands. (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with male, size slightly larger. Ovipositor broad,
 tapering evenly to the acute apex; dorsal margin subserrulate in
 distal portion, ventral margin serrulate near apex. Subgenital
 plate triangular, with apex sharply acute.
General coloration immaculate green. The type is discolored.
 The allotype has the ovipositor light brown, darkened at apex.
Length of body <? 28, 9 31.7; length of pronotum cf 7, 9 7.3;
 cephalic width of pronotum cf 4.5. 9 4.8; caudal width of pro-
 notum c? 5, 9 5.2; depth of pronotal lateral lobe cf 5.8, 9 6;
 greatest (dorsal) width of pronotal lateral lobe cf 5, 9 5.2; length
 of tegmen cT 43.7, 9 43.8; greatest width of tegmen c? 10.7,
 9 11.9; length of ovipositor 9.2 mm.
142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Casigneta cochleata Brunner.
1878. C[asigneta] cochleata Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p .164,
 pi. Ill, fig. 46. [d\ 9; Moluccas; Amboina, [Moluccas].]
Amboina Island, Moluccas, 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]
Length of body 26.5, length of pronotum 5.6, length of tegmen
 38.3, greatest width of tegmen 8.5, length of caudal femur 26.3,
 length of ovipositor 9.7 mm.
Casigneta lamellosa Brunner.
1891. Casigneta lamellosa Brunner, Verb.. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, XLI, p. 77.
 [d\ Celebes.]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 2 9 .
Without males we are unable to determine these specimens with
 certainty. Brunner has described lamellosa from the male genitalia
 alone, but the measurements show it to be a species with more
 slender tegmina than cochleata. As the present specimens agree
 in this respect, we have assigned them accordingly. In all other
 features, except those of proportion, they are similar to the Amboina
 female here recorded as cochleata.
In these females as well as in the specimen of cochleata, the teg-
 mina have the veinlets of the distal section of the enlarged portion
 of the anal field buffy, with minute intervals dark brown. From
 there to the apex the sutural margin has the minute spaces between
 the green veinlets similarly dark brown. These latter markings
 are so fine that they are scarcely distinguishable to the naked eye.
Length of body 24.5 and 25, length of pronotum 5.4 and 5.8,
length of tegmen 38 and 39.3, greatest width of tegmen 6.9 and 7,
length of caudal femur 26.7 and 27, length of ovipositor 10 and
10.9 mm.
Casigneta pellucida Brunner.
1878. C[asigneia] pellucida Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 165.
 [d\ 9 ; Philippine Islands.]
Dapitan, Zamboanga District, Mindanao, Philippine Islands,
 (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
As stated by Brunner, this species differs from C. cochleata
 Brunner mainly in the paler general coloration and the triangular
 female subgenital plate. The tegmina show the same delicate
 marking we have noted for C. lamellosa Brunner, and in addition
 have a very small blackish brown fleck at the base of the anal vein.
Length of body 23, length of pronotum 5.8, length of tegmen 38,
 greatest width of tegmen 7.6, length of caudal femur 28.7, length
 of ovipositor 8.3 mm.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 143
Elbenia tenera Brunner.
1S78. E[lbenia] lenera Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 166.
[ 9 , Borneo.]
 1898. Elb[enia] triangularis Brunner, Abh. Senckenb. Naturfors. Ges.,
 XXIV, p. 255, pi. XVIII, fig. 42. [d*; Kina Balu, Borneo.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 2 d\ 1 9 .
The present material proves conclusively the synonymy indi-
 cated above, caused by Brunner's failure to associate the sexes of
 this species.
The anal tergite of the female has not been described. It is
 strongly specialized, being produced in a pair of slender, straight
 processes above the small, shield-shaped supra-anal plate.
Length of body (all squeezed out) cT 24 and 24.7, 9 24.5; length
of pronotum tf 5 and 4.8, 9 5.3; caudal width of pronotal disk
c? 2.9 and 3, 9 3; length of tegmen & 34.5 and 32.8, 9 34.5;
greatest width of tegmen cf 5.7 and 5.8, 9 6.5; length of cephalic
femur cf 6.2 and 6.2, 9 6.5; length of caudal femur cT 20.8 and
20.8, 9 22; length of ovipositor 9.8 mm.
Elbenia nigro-signata Stal.
1876. Elbenia nigro-signata Stal, Bih. K. Svenska Vet. Akad. Hand].,
 IV, No. 5, p. 56. [c?: Malacca, British Straits Settlements.]
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
The present female apparently represents the previously unknown
 female of nigro-signata. It agrees closely with that sex of E. tenera
 Brunner. In addition to having the forking of the branch of the
 median vein more distal in position, the present female has the
 anal tergite produced in a pair of very slender, slightly decurved
 and divergent, straight processes, above the shield-shaped supra-
 anal plate, these processes more slender and elongate and more
 widely separated than in tenera.
Length of body 16.7 (shrivelled), length of pronotum 5.3, caudal
 width of pronotal disk 3.4, length of tegmen 36.7, greatest tegminal
 width 7.3, length of cephalic femur 6.2, length of caudal femur
 20.8, length of ovipositor 10.7 mm.
 Elbenia makilingae new species. Plate XIII, figures 1 and 2.
Known from a unique female, this sex differs from any pre-
 viously described female of the genus, except E. manillensis Pictet, 22
 in the brevity of the ovipositor. From that insect the present
 differs in the smaller size and shorter pronotum, with lateral lobes
 no deeper than wide.
20 It appears very possible that Brunner's E. modesla, described from the
 Philippines, will prove to be a synonym of manillensis. Pictet describes the
 ovipositor of that species as short, but does not give the length.
144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Type: 9 ; Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (From
 C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 793.]
Vertex small, very narrowly V-shaped and deeply sulcate to
 near apex; as characteristic of genus. Pronotum with lateral
 lobes no deeper than wide. Tegmina and wings fully developed.
 Tegmina with median vein branching a brief distance before its
 median point, this branch forking nearly at its median point, these
 veins running longitudinally and showing only weak obliquity;
 near its extremity the median vein sends one or two, poorly defined,
 branches to the sutural margin and apex. Anal tergite simple,
 triangularly emarginate above the small, short, shield-shaped
 supra-anal plate. Ovipositor short for the genus, dorsal margin
 strongly concave proximad, ventral margin evenly convex to the
 acute apex; dorsal and ventral margins distinctly serrulate, surface
 of dorsal valves to near proximal portion with minute nodules,
 the other portions of the lateral surfaces of the valves with even
 smaller, very minute nodules. The ovipositor is much shorter
 and more strongly curved, with apex more acute than in E. tenera
 Brunner. Subgenital plate broad and short, its distal margin
 broadly convex but showing a slight flattening of this convexity
 laterad. Limbs elongate. Caudal femora heavy in proximal
 portions, very slender in distal portions. Genicular lobes of
 femora all bispinose, except one internal lobe of the cephalic
 femora which is unispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed as
 follows. Cephalic internal 2 and 4, cephalic external 0, median
 internal 0, median external 3 and 3, caudal internal 4, caudal
 external 5.
The unique type is badly discolored. It would appear to have
 been pale green in life, immaculate except for a delicate marking
 along the sutural margins of the tegmina, much as here described
 for Casigneta himellosa Brunner on page 142.
Length of body 22.5, length of pronotum 5.1, caudal width of
 pronotum 3.1, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.7, width of pro-
 notal lateral lobe 3.7, length of tegmen 36, greatest width of tegmen
 7, distal width of tegmen 5.4, length of cephalic femur 8, length of
 median femur 10.9, length of caudal femur 25.2, proximal width of
 caudal femur 3.4, length of ovispositor 7.6, greatest width of
 ovipositor 2.1 mm.
The species is known from a single specimen.
Elbenia serraticauda new species. Plate XIII, figures 3 and 4.
This remarkable insect has the male genitalia of the general type
 found in the Sumatran E. appendiculata Brunner, but shows de-
 cidedly greater specialization and several differences of striking
 character.
It agrees very closely with the Malaccan E. nigrosignata Stal in
 these features, but the bifid production of the anal segment has
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 145
its arms parallel, becoming weakly convergent distad, the cerci
 are proportionately shorter and do not extend as far caudad as
 does the subgenital plate, with a small cylindrical projection above
 their bases and the subgenital plate is straight-produced to the
 elongate and recurved, divided and internally serrulate distal
 portion. In other features these species appear to agree very
 closely, except that in serraticauda the tegmina are slightly wider,
 with first branch of the median vein forking mesad.
Though agreeing closely in general appearance with the female,
 here described as E. makilingae, the present male differs con-
 spicuously in the pronotal lateral lobes, which are distinctly higher
 than wide and in the shorter limbs.
Type: cf 1 ; Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippine Islands. (From
 C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 794.]
Vertex as described for makilingae. Pronotum with lateral lobes
 distinctly higher than wide. Tegmina with median vein branching
 at about end of its proximal two-fifths, this branch forking at
 nearly its median point, these veins running longitudinally and
 showing very weak obliquity; near its distal extremity the median
 vein sends another poorly defined branch to the apex. 21 Anal
 tergite produced mesad in two slender, narrowly separated, pro-
 cesses which are parallel proximad and converge weakly distad,
 with delicate, lamellate, rounded apices vertical. Below this
 tergite and above the cerci is a small projection bearing a small,
 straight, cylindrical projection, with apex rounded, directed
 caudad. Cercus cylindrical, tapering, curved evenly inward distad
 to the acute apex. Subgenital plate trough shaped, straight-
 produced proximad and narrowly V-emarginate in distal portion
 of this section, the two distal portions thus formed suddenly and
 strongly recurved, directed dorso-cephalad, each straight and
 gradually tapering, with internal margin armed with a regular
 row of small, stout teeth. Limbs as described for makilingae,
 except that they are decidedly shorter. Genicular lobes of femora
 all rounded and unarmed, except the internal of the caudal femora
 which are unispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed as follows.
 Cephalic internal 4 and 4, cephalic external 0, median internal 0,
 median external 2 and 3, caudal internal 2 and 3, caudal external
 1 and 2.
The unique type is badly discolored but shows the entire proximal
 portions of the tegminal stridulating field, to and including the
 stridulating vein, very dark brown. The other portions were
 apparently immaculate, light green in life.
2 * The venation of the sinistral tegmen is distorted in this specimen, the ulnar
 fusing with the first branch of the median vein, that branch forking twice instead
 of once, meso-proximad and meso-distad.
146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Length of body 23.5, length of pronotum 5.4, caudal width of
 pronotum 3.6, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.3, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 3.8, length of tegmen 35.3, greatest width of tegmen
 7.3, distal width of tegmen 6.3, length of cephalic femur 6.2, length
 of median femur 8.8, length of caudal femur 21.8, proximal width
 of caudal femur 2.9 mm.
Furnia bakeri Karny.
1921. Furnia bakeri Karny, Philippine Jour. Sci., XVIII, p. 617. [9;
 Mount Makiling, [Luzon, Philippine Islands].]
Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, 1 9 .
We find that the genus Furnia agrees so closely with Elbenia in
 the great majority of generic and group characters that we refer it,
 without hesitation, to the present position in the Group Psyrae.
 The auditory foramina of the cephalic tibiae are conchate on both
 sides in this genus and, for this reason alone, it had been assigned a
 position in the Group Anaulocomerae.
The specimen before us agrees closely with the original de-
 scription. We would note that the vertex, at its base only, is
 nearly as wide as the first antennal joint. The triangular pro-
 jections of the anal tergite lie on each side of the shield-shaped
 supra-anal plate. The tegmina show a small brown suffusion
 proximo-laterad in the anal field.
Length of body 23.5, length of pronotum 5.8, length of tegmen
 40.7, greatest width of tegmen 8.8, length of cephalic femur 7.8,
 length of caudal femur 23. 3, 22 length of ovipositor 11 mm.
Phaula rugulosa Brunner.
1878. Ph[aula] rugulosa Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 167.
 [ 9, Philippine Islands.]
Butuan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
The last two specimens are larger than the type, but agree closely
 in all proportions and other characters given. Males may prove
 the presence of more than one species having the pronotum shal-
 lowly though thickly impresso-punctulate.
Length of body (the measurements of the Philippine specimens
 are given first) 23.3, 24 and 24.2, length of pronotum 4.8, 5.6 and
 5.6, caudal width of pronotal disk 3.1, 3.3-3.3, length of tegmen
 31.2, 35 and 36.2, width of tegmen 6.8, 8.2 and 8, length of caudal
2 This dimension is given by Karny as 35.5, probably a printers error for 25.5.
147
femur 19.7, 20.5 and 20.8, length of ovipositor 10.3, 11.7 and 12.2
Phaula phaneropteroides Brunner.
1891. Phaula phaneropteroides Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien.,
xli, p. 81. [c 71 ; Manila, [Luzon, Philippine Islands].]
 1921. Phaula tereliuscula Karny, Philippine Jour. Sci., XVIII, p. 614.
[9; Los Bafios, [Luzon, Philippine Islands].]
Los Bafios, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F.
 Baker), 1 <?, 1 9.
 1 d%2 9.
Failure to associate the sexes which show a decided contrast
 in size, led to the synonymy indicated above. The present material
 enables us to establish this synonymy without hesitation.
The male genitalia have been very superficially described for
 the species. The anal tergite is truncate, with a small, shallow,
 triangular impression above the elongate-trigonal supra-anal plate.
 The cerci are ovate enlarged in distal two -fifths, the external
 surfaces of this portion being concave, the internal surface armed
 mesad with a large, erect tooth. The subgenital plate is short,
 extending caudad to the median portion of the cerci; it is carinate
 mesad, with apex very broadly emarginate, the lateral portions
 short, straight, styliform but not articulated.
Measurements (in millimeters)
&
Los Bafios
 Mount Makiling
9
 Los Bafios
Length
of
body
13.2
 14.2
18
19
 of
pro-
 notum
 3.3
 3.7
4.8
 4.7
 tegmen
 23.3
29.8
 29.3
Width
4
 4.2
6.6
 6.3
 caudal
 femur
 16.2
 16.7
19.4
19.2
 ovi-
 positor
9.5
 9.8
 9.4
Phaula luzonica new species. Plate XIII, figures 5, 6 and 7.
This insect is nearest in relationship to P. phaneropteroides
 Brunner, differing in the larger size, dark marking of the cephalic
 tibiae at the auditory foramina, male genitalia (which, however,
 are of the same general type) and much shorter ovipositor.
Type: d 71 ; Baguio, Benguet, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 795.]
Vertex rather narrowly V-shaped and shallowly sulcate, the
 lateral margins weakly concave and expanding weakly in distal
148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
portion, instead of being there parallel as in phaneropteroides.
 Pronotum with surface smooth, the lateral lobes very slightly
 deeper than wide. Tegmina and wings fully developed. Tegmina
 with costal margin of stridulating field convex, not produced at
 stridulating vein; median vein with four oblique branches which
 do not fork. Anal tergite hooded, produced to opposite proximal
 portions of cochleate cereal apices, there truncate, the lateral
 margins obliquely ascendant and broadly concave to that point.
 Supra-anal plate concealed. Cerci cylindrical in slightly over
 proximal* half, the remaining distal portion expanded into a de-
 licate, vertical, lamellate plate, which is irregularly quadrate with
 angles rounded, bearing mesad on its concave internal surface a
 large erect tooth. 23 Subgenital plate small, short, extending
 cauclad as far as median portion of cerci, carinate mesad, with
 apex broadly U-emarginate, the lateral portions thus formed
 short, straight, styliform but not articulated. Genicular lobes
 of caudal femora very weakly bispinose, of other femora bluntly
 or triangularly rounded. Ventral femoral margins armed with
 small teeth, those of the cephalic and median femora being minutely
 microscopic, as follows. Cephalic internal cf 2 to 3, 9 3 to 6,
 cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median external o 71 and
9 5, caudal internal c 71 5 to 7, 9 4 to 5, caudal external c 71 7,
9 10 to 11.
 Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Larger and more robust than male, but not showing as great
 sexual contrast as does phaneropteroides. Coloration similar, the
 marking of the cephalic tibiae of apparent decided specific diag-
 nostic value. Ovipositor very short for the genus, curving very
 gradually upward to the acute apex, dorsal and ventral margins
 very finely serrulate an equal distance distad, lateral surface without
 nodes or grooves. Subgenital plate triangular with apex bluntly
 rounded and ventral surface showing a strong, very slenderly
 lamellate medio-longitudinal carina, percurrent to near apex.
General coloration immaculate yellowish oil green, the bodies of
 the specimens before us being much faded. Tegmina along sutural
 margin, immediately beyond stridulating area, with veins brown
 and interspaces toward anal vein blackish, this continued to apex
 of tegmina along the edge, but the veins become green and the
 interspaces so small that they are visible only under the lens.
 Pronotum, abdomen and femora microscopically dotted with
 hydrangea red. Cephalic tibiae in area of auditory foramen
 washed with hydrangea red and there, on dorsal surface, suffused
 with blackish.
Length of body d 71 (shrivelled) 15, 9 22.3; length of pronotum
 cf 4.7, 9 4.8; caudal width of pronotum <? 2.7, 9 3; depth of
23 The general type is as in phaneropteroides, the lamellate distal portion in
 that species being, however, proportionately smaller, narrower, ovate and in
 position decidedly beyond the apex of the decidedly less produced anal tergite.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 149
pronotal lateral lobe & 3.7, 9 3.8; width of pronotal lateral
 lobe c? 3.4, 9 3.3; length of tegmen cT 31.7, 9 33.3; greatest width
 of tegmen (estimated, tegmina curled) cT 6, 9 7.7; length of
 cephalic femur d 1 4.8, 9 5; length of caudal femur cf 16.4, 9 16.9;
 length of ovipositor 7.8 mm.
This interesting species is known from the described pair.
Phaula galeata new species. Plate XIII, figures 8 and 9.
This species belongs to the second section of the genus, as
 recognized by Brunner, in which the first branch of the median
 vein of the tegmina is forked. This should be noted as a feature
 of convergence toward the type characteristic of the genus Elbenia.
 It would appear probable that in this section of the genus several
 distinct generic units are involved and the present species may
 require generic separation when the group is comprehensively
 studied. At the present time insufficient material is at hand for
 this to be accomplished, though we feel justified in separating, on
 page 150, one of the units included by Brunner.
The remarkably crested and undivided anal tergite of the male,
 readily separates it from males of the species of apparently nearest
 affinity, the Bornean P. gracilis Brunner.
Type: d\ Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 796.]
Vertex narrowly V-shaped and sulcate to near apex, the lateral
 margins parallel in distal portion as in P. phaneropteroides Brunner.
 wider than deep. Tegmina and wings fully developed. Tegmina
 with costal margin of stridulating area convex, not produced at
 stridulating vein; median vein with first branch forked slightly
 beyond median point and weakly oblique, the median vein with a
 second undivided oblique branch distad; ulnar vein reaching
 sutural margin at end of its proximal two-thirds. Anal tergite
 produced mesad in a vertical lobe, this lobe higher than long, its
 dorsal and ventral margins moderately divergent to its broadfy
 convex distal margin, the dorso-distal angle bluntly rounded, the
 ventro-distal angle delicately lipped. Cercus cylindrical, tapered
 and curving evenly inward to the irregularly enlarged apex, which
 is produced in a long, weakly sigmoid tooth. These organs reach
 to the base of the produced lobe of the anal tergite. Subgenital
 plate small, triangular, medio -longitudinally cleft to its base.
 This plate suggests the usual triangular type found in females
 rather than the type developed in males of any species we can
 recall. Ventral femoral margins armed with very small spines as
 follows. Cephalic internal 5, cephalic external 0, median internal
 and 1, median external 6 and 7, caudal internal 3 and 5, caudal
 external 7 and 7.
150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The specimen is much discolored. General coloration immac-
 ulate, apparently pale green in life, except that the stridulating
 area is suffused and the sutural margin very narrowly blackish
 brown to its extremity. Occiput, genae, pronotum and femora
 microscopically clotted with hydrangea red; these dots, however,
 fewer and averaging larger than in P. luzonica, here described.
Length of body 19.5, length of pronotum 5, caudal width of
 pronotum 2.9, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.7, width of pro-
 notal lateral lobe 4, length of tegmen 30, greatest width of tegmen
 5.6, length of cephalic femur 5.9, length of caudal femur 19.3 mm.
STICTOPHAULA new genus
This genus is erected to include Phaneroptera trichopus Haan, 24
 Phaula spinoso-laminata, Phaula chlorotica Brunner and the three
 species described in the present paper.
Genotype.-  Stictophaula bakeri new species.
It is closely related to the genus Phaula, agreeing in all char-
 acters of group or higher importance. It differs in the very strongly
 declivent vertex, weaker tegminal venation, with veinlets fully as
 multitudinous, but with veins of discoidal field and cross-veins
 irregularly flexuous, sutural margin of male stridulating area
 produced at stridulating vein, cephalic femora with internal audi-
 tory foramen conchate, 25 simple male anal tergite, supra-anal plate
 and cerci and ovipositor of female with margins entirely unarmed,
 the dorsal valves weakly concave on their ventral margins distad,
 into which fit the apices of the ventral valves.
The tegminal surfaces are weakly convex and the character of
 their venation gives to individuals of this genus a general facies,
 contrasting with the species of Phaula much as does that of the
 species of the North American genus Amblycorypha when compared
 with the North American genus Phaneroptera. 26
Stictophaula bakeri new species. Plate XIII, figures 10, 11 and 12.
This insect is closely related to S. spinoso-laminata (Brunner).
 The apparent features of difference are the minutely but thickly
 pink-speckled pronotum, abdomen and median and caudal femora;
24 Under this name chlorotica has been placed as a synonym by Dohrn. We do
 not believe that this synonymy can be recognized until material from Java and
 Singapore can be compared.
25 Not flattened conchate as in the species of Phaula.
?6 Caudell has recently fixed the genotype of Phaneroptera as curvicauda
 (De Geer). As this is the first valid designation, Scudderia falls as a synonym
 of Phaneroptera, while the Old World genus, previously recognized as Phaner-
 optera, is renamed Anerota by Caudell (Jour. Washington Acad. Sci., XI,
 p. 488, (1921).)
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 151
similarly black -speckled cephalic femora, which, however, bear
 four striking, opaque, buffy patches; tegmina which have the median
 vein with two weak branches beyond the forked first branch, 27
 and male subgenital plate which is produced distad in two tri-
 angular and not lobate projections, each showing on its inner
 margin a minute rectangular offset, rather than an acuminate tooth.
 Type: tf ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 797.]
Vertex narrowly V-shaped and sulcate to near apex. Maxillary
 palpi exceedingly elongate and slender, fourth joint half as long-
 as third and one-third as long as fifth. Pronotum with surface
 smooth, disk defined from lateral lobes by the broadly rounded
 lateral margins, lateral lobes decidedly deeper than wide, with
 humeral sinus deep. Tegmina and wings fully developed, the
 delicate but close veinulation of the former giving them somewhat
 the appearance of ground-glass; tegmina with ulnar vein reaching
 sutural margin slightly beyond end of its proximal two-thirds,
 median vein branching distinctly before median point, two strongly
 oblique and irregular branches of the median vein distad. Supra-
 anal plate strongly deflexed, short, slightly broader than long,
 triangular, with lateral margins broadly convex. Anal tergite
 truncate distad. Cercus elongate, slender, weakly and evenly
 curved inward, tapering gradually to its acute apex. Subgenital
 plate narrowing proximad, distal portion V-emarginate, the lateral
 portions thus formed narrowly triangular with apices rounded, their
 internal margins each with a minute rectangular offset mesad.
 Genicular lobes of femora unarmed, except those of caudal femora
 which are unispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed with minute
 spines as follows. Cephalic internal 8, cephalic external 0, median
 internal 0, median external 8 and 9, caudal internal 6 and 7, caudal
 external 5 and 7.
Tegmina translucent light grape green, body and limbs in life
 apparently of this color. Maxillary palpi immaculate. Pronotum,
 abdomen, median and caudal femora minutely and thickly dotted
 with hydrangea red. Cephalic femora very thickly dotted with
 black, with five opaque buffy areas on dorsal surface, spines of
 these members black. Cephalic tibiae with a few black dots prox-
 imad, particularly dorsad on the auditory foramina. Tegmina,
 in areolae on each side of the ulnar vein with a few of the minute
 intervals between the veinlets mesad black, six or seven cross-
 veins near median vein gathering knots of veinlets near their bases,
 which are buffy; stridulating field with intervals between veinlets
 embrowned latero-proximad and mesad, sutural margin beyond
 very narrowly darkened, with veins brown and intervals between
 veinlets blackish, to apex.
27 In this feature alone is closer agreement with S. chlorotica (Brunner) shown
152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Length of body 24, length of pronotum 6.2, caudal width of
 pronotum 3.4, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 4.2, length of tegmen 35.3, greatest width of tegmen
 8.3, length of cephalic femur 6.7, length of caudal femur 19.7 mm.
Stictophaula quadridens new species. Plate XIII, figure 13.
Nearest the Javan S. spinoso-laminata (Brunner), the male of
 this insect may be quickly distinguished by the subgenital plate,
 which is produced distad in two slenderly acute-conical projections,
 between the bases of which are two sharp, straight teeth, one-third
 as long.
Un.ike that species and S. bakeri here described, the present
 insect has the pronotum and limbs immaculate. The tegmina
 have the stridulating field more extensively suffused with blackish
 brown than in bakeri, but with brown areolae along the sutural
 margin much less conspicuous.
The tegminal venation is much as in bakeri, differing as described
 below.
Type: cf 1 ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 854.]
Agrees with the description of bakeri in all details except the
 following. Tegmina with median vein branching mesad, the
 cross-veinlets to the median vein more distinct and not gathering
 knots of veinlets near their bases. Subgenital plate narrowing
 proximad, mesad with a weak medio-longitudinal carina, distal
 portion briefly produced, terminating on each side in a slenderly
 acute-conical spike, each of these slightly longer than the distance
 between their bases, that interval supplied with two sharp, straight
 teeth of one- third the length, the narrowly U-shaped interval
 between these slightly deeper than the similar intervals between
 them and the lateral projections. Ventral femoral margins armed
 with minute spines as follows. Cephalic internal 5 and 7, cephalic
 external 0, median internal 0, median external 9 and 10, caudal
 internal 4 and 4, caudal external 9 and 9.
Tegmina translucent light grape green, body and limbs im-
 maculate (discolored, in life probably the same color). Tegmina
 in areolae on each side of ulnar and principal branch of median
 vein with a few of the minute intervals between the veinlets mesad
 black; stridulating field blackish brown in proximal half, sutural
 margin beyond stridulating field very narrowly and weakly suffused,
 with veins brown and very minute intervals between veinlets
 blackish, to apex.
Length of body 21 Cshrivelled), length of pronotum 6.2, caudal
 width of pronotum 3.7, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.9, width
 of pronotal lateral lobe 4.2, length of tegmen 36, greatest width
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 153
of tegmen 8.8, length of cephalic femur 6, length of caudal femur
 18.3 mm.
Stictophaula micra new species. Plate XIII, figures 14 and 15.
Known form a unique female, the present species is seen to agree
 closely with S. spinoso-laminata (Brunner) and S. bakeri here
 described, except for its decidedly smaller size.
In tegminal venation it agrees with spinoso-laminata in having
 the median vein with a single branch beyond its forked first branch,
 while it appears also to agree closely with that species in coloration.
 We believe that the male genitalia will show signal differentiation.
Type: 9 ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 798.]
Size small for the genus. Vertex narrowly V-shaped and sulcate
 to near apex. Maxillary palpi exceedingly elongate and slender,
 fourth joint slightly over half as long as third, slightly over one-
 third as long as fifth. Pronotum with surface smooth, disk round-
 ing broadly into lateral lobes, these very slightly higher than wide,
 with humeral sinus deep. Tegmina and wings fully developed,
 the tegminal structure and venation as described for bakeri except
 that the median vein has but a single strongly oblique and irregular
 branch beyond the forked first branch. Ovipositor slightly longer
 than pronotum, its structure as characteristic of the genus. Sub-
 genital plate very short, triangular. Genicular lobes unarmed
 except those of the caudal femora, the internal of those portions
 each with a large and very minute spine, the external of those
 portions unispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed with minute
 spines as follows. Cephalic internal 7 and 9, cephalic external 0,
 median internal 0, median external 8, caudal internal 4 and 6,
 caudal external 8 and 9.
Tegmina biscay green proximad (other portions, body and
 limbs faded, probably that color in life). Maxillary palpi with
 distal portion of terminal joint suffused with blackish. Cephalic
 femora very thickly dotted with black, the dorsal surface with
 these dots clustered, so as to appear subannulate but without inter-
 vening opaque patches, spines of these members black. Cephalic
 tibiae with a few black dots proximad, particularly dorsad of the
 auditory foramina. Tegmina in all areolae of discoidal field formed
 between ulnar, branches of median and median veins, except distad,
 with a few of the intervals between the veinlets mesad black, as
 are the intervals between the minute veinlets along the sutural
 margin for some distance caudad from the anal field. Head,
 pronotum, abdomen and other portions of limbs immaculate.
Length of body (shrivelled) 14, length of pronotum 5.3, caudal
 width of pronotum 2.8, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 3.8, width
 of pronotal lateral lobe 3.5, length of tegmen 30.8, greatest width
154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
of tegmen 6.7, length of cephalic femur 5.4, length of caudal femur
 17, length of ovipositor 6.7 mm. 28
Psyra brunneri Karny.
1878. Ps[yra] ensis Brunner, (not Phaneroptera ensis Haan, 1842), Monogr
der Phaneropteriden., p. 171, pi. Ill, figs. 49a, 49b. [cf 1 , 9; Amboina,
[Moluccas].]
 1920. [Psyra] brunneri Karny, ZooL Mededeel. Rijks Mus. Nat. Hist.
Leiden, V, p. 192. (New name.)
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 cf .
Amboina Island, Moluccas, 1 cf , [A. N. S. P.].
The specimen from Amboina agrees fully with Brunner's de-
 scription in form of the male cerci. In the Obi male the minute
 subapical internal tooth is absent from the cerci.
The literature on this genus is extremely unsatisfactory and
 without more material we cannot solve the problems which at
 present confront the student. It would appear very probable that
 melanonota Stal is a synonym of ensis (Haan), as is also marginata
 Fritze, in Karl. 29
Until a complete revision of the genus is accomplished we can
 only state that in the material before us two distinct species are
 represented, one unquestionably brunneri of Karny, the other
 melanonota of Stal.
 Psyra melanonota Stal.
1876. P[syra] melanonota Stal, Bih. Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl., IV, No. 5,
 p. 56. [ 9 : Malacca, [Malay Peninsula].]
Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
 1 cf, 1 9.
Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9
Obi Island, Moluccas, 5 cf , 2 9.
Amboina Island, Moluccas, 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
Java (from H. de Saussure), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
The Moluccan series has the pronotum immaculate except for a
 broad transverse band of blackish across the caudal portion of the
 disk above the humeral sinus. This band is sometimes paler in its
 cephalic half. The two distal cereal teeth in the males vary in
 their curvature and in the first tooth, which in form ranges from
 chisel-shaped to acute.
PSEUDOPSYRA new genus
Known only from the male sex, we are in consequence unable to
 state whether this genus should be referred to the Group Psyrae or
28 Described for spinoso-laminata as scarcely longer than the pronotum, (7
 millimeters), by Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, XLI, p. 80, (1891).
29 Mitth. Schweizer Ent. Ges., XI, p. 299, (1908).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 155
the Group Holochlorae, while in the astonishing male genitalic
 development closest approach appears to be found in the Group
 Isopserae.
In general appearance, however, the insect strongly suggests a
 small, uniformly colored species of the genus Psyra.
Genotype.  Pseudopsyra mirabilis new species.
Size medium for the group, form much as in the genus Psyra.
 Head with eyes extremely prominent, bead-like. Vertex very
 small, in dorsal aspect appearing only as a smooth narrowing of the
 occiput cephalad without sulcatum, in cephalic aspect with face
 nearly vertical, narrowly and irregularly sulcate to ventral margin,
 where it is briefly separated from the facial fastigium, its lateral
 surfaces fully occupied by the large lateral ocelli. Pronotum much
 as in Psyra, surface smooth, lateral lobes with length equal to width
 and with humeral sinus decided. Tegmina and wings fully de-
 veloped, the former with venation much as in Psyra. Tegmina
 with mediastine vein distinct, median vein sending a forked branch
 and two or three distal branches obliquely across the discoidal field.
 Mesosteriium with lobes small, triangular with apices rounded,
 metasternum with lobes much larger and more rounded. Male
 genitalia very highly specialized, the subgenital plate bearing ex-
 tremely elongate styles. Femora supplied with minute spines on
 the usual margins for the group, genicular lobes bispinose. Ce-
 phalic tibiae with auditory foramina internally conchate, externally
 apert; dorsal surface weakly sulcate, its internal margin with three
 and one distal, small spines.
 Pseudopsyra mirabilis new species. Plate XIII, figures 16 and 17.
This plainly colored species shows one of the highest types of
 male genitalic specialization we have encountered, such occurring
 not only in the ultimate tergite but in the cerci and subgenital
 plate as well.
Type: d 1 ; Island of Penang, Malay Peninsula. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 799.]
In addition to the characters given in the generic treatment,
 we note the following. Tegmina with ulnar vein distad sending a
 branch to the nearer fork of the first branch of the median vein,
 from there to the sutural margin strongly flexuous. Cross- veins
 of tegmina numerous, many of these straight and transverse.
 Anal tergite produced in a large shield-shaped plate, which is
 strongly deflexed with dorsal surface concave, this plate distad is
 nearly rectangulate emarginate, the emargination with lateral
 margins weakly divergent to its base, where the dorsal surface of
 the plate is briefly and very strongly concave in a V-shaped area.
 Supra-anal plate concealed beneath production of anal tergite.
 Cercus very large and elongate cylindrical, extending as far caudad
 as the subgenital plate, weakly tapering and directed ventro-
156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
caudacl in proximal half, there curving strongly up so that the distal
 portion is directed dorsad and weakly curved, that portion flattened
 with a percurrent knife-edge dorsad, which terminates in a minute,
 straight, aciculate spine at the apex. Subgenital plate tapering
 strongly proximad, then produced in a long narrow shaft with
 lateral margins parallel, weakly diverging distad with apex tri-
 angularly emarginate, the lateral portions produced beyond,
 straight and very slender, bearing at their apices extremely long,
 very slender, nearly straight, weakly sigmoid styles. Ventral
 femoral margins armed with the following number of spines.
 Cephalic internal 6 and 6, cephalic external 0, median internal 0,
 median external 5 and 6, caudal internal 5 and 6, caudal external
 5 and 5.
General coloration yellowish green, probably rich green in life,
 Antennae with distal joints brown, their intersections yellowish.
Length of body 24.3, length of pronotum 6, caudal width of
 pronotum 3.7, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.2, width of pro-
 notal lateral lobe 4.3, length of tegmen 36.4, greatest width of
 tegmen 9, length of cephalic femur 7, length of caudal femur 24.7.
 length of cercus 4 mm.
The type of this remarkable species is unique.
Holochlora venosa Stal. Plate XIII, figure 18
1873. H[olochlnra] venosa Stal, Of v. Kongl. Vet. Akad. Forh., 1873, p. 43.
 [ 9, Java.]
Singapore, British Straits Settlements (from C. F. Baker), 1 cT.
This specimen agrees closely with Brunner's description of the
 male sex. Length of body 19, length of pronotum 5.8, length of
 tegmen 33, greatest width of tegmen 6.8, length of caudal femur
 24 mm.
Holochlora mindanao new species. Plate XIII, figures 20, 21 and 22.
Related to H. japonica Brunner 30 (see Plate XIII, figure 19),
 the present insect differs in having proportionately longer limbs
 with femoral spines more decidedly darkened. The male sex is
 further distinguished by the shorter and much more deeply cleft
 anal segment, the two portions of which are not produced and
 lamellate laterad and thus do not conceal the cerci, and by the
 much longer and much more deeply cleft subgenital plate, with
 distal portions moderately expanded and supplied with longer
 styles.
In the females the genitalia are the same, except that in min-
 danao the dorsal portion of the ovipositor plica is almost black,
 like the distal portion of the ovipositor.
\ large series of that species is before us, from Hawaii, Japan and China
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 157
Type: c? ; Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 800.]
Size medium small for the males of this genus. Head, pronotum,
 tegmina and wings much as in japonica. Anal tergite deeply
 U-emarginate to near its base, bearing two lobate fingers which
 are weakly curved downward, with dorsal surface weakly convex
 and very hairy, their truncate apices with a very small deflexed
 inner and a slightly larger deflexed outer projection. Cerci ex-
 tending slightly caudad of apices of these, cylindrical, straight,
 tapering to the apex which curves up into an erect spine, directed
 dorsad and curving slightly cephalad. Subgenital plate narrow
 and elongate, extending far beyond cereal apices, proximal portion
 medio-longitudinally carinate, distal third deeply V-emarginate,
 the lateral portions thus formed vertical, expanding slightly and
 then narrowing to their truncate apices, which are each supplied
 with a straight flattened style, three times as long as broad, with
 apex rounded. Femoral genicular lobes bispinose. Ventral fem-
 oral margins armed with spines as follows, those of the caudal
 femora being heavy. Cephalic internal 5 and 5, cephalic external
 0, median internal  , median external 4 and 4, caudal internal 5
 and 6, caudal external 6.
Allotype: 9 ; Zamboanga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands.
 (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection.]
Differs from the male as follows. Size much larger, form
 broader, the contrast between the sexes much as in japonica.
 Ovipositor as characteristic of genus, with proximal plica of dorsal
 valves acute; distance from base of ovipositor to end of plica
 distinctly less than half that to end of ovipositor. Subgenital
 plate shorter than basal width, triangular, with apex acute, medio-
 longitudinally carinate.
General coloration immaculate, bright green, the dried specimens
 before us much discolored. Tegmina with mediastine vein and
 adjacent veinlets buffy. Spines of femoral margins brown, those
 of caudal femora blackish to near bases.
Length of body rf 1 22.5, 9 32; length of pronotum <? 6.2, 9 7.7;
caudal width of pronotum cf 3.6, 9 5.2; length of tegmen cf 36,
9 49; greatest width of tegmen cf 7.8, 9 12.5; length of cephalic
femur cf 8, 9 12.4; length of caudal femur tf 31.8, 9 33.7; length
of ovipositor 10 mm.
The species is known only from the pair here described.
Holochlora signata Bruimer. Plate XIII, figure 23.
1891. Holochlora signata Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien., XLI, p. 92.
 [cT, 9 ' Borneo; Singapore, [British Straits Settlements].]
 1901,. (Harrison and Hiller), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
The markings of this very small species, though inconspicuous,,
 are very distinctive.
158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Length of body 20, length of pronotum 6, length of tegmen 40,
 greatest width of tegmen 8.5, length of caudal femur 25.5, length
 of ovipositor 5.8 mm.
Holochlora fusco-spinosa Brunner. Plate XIV, figures 1 and 2.
1891. Holochlora fusco-spinosa Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien., XLI,
p. 92. [cf, Luzon, [Philippine Islands].]
Los Bafios, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, August 26, 1915,
 (L. Uichanco), 1 cf ; 1913, (Ledyard), 1 cf.
 Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
1 cf.
Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9.
Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker) ,19.
This species is closely related to H. javanica Brunner, differing
 in the tegmina which are obscurely maculate and which, in the
 females, narrow less evenly distad and are, in consequence, broader
 meso-distad. A short, suffused postocular line of brown is found
 on each side of the head, this continued as a short line of the
 same color along the lateral margins of the pronotal disk at its
 cephalic margin.
Brunner does not mention the striclulating area of the tegmina
 in the male type. In the male before us this area is occupied by a
 close network of veinlets, the striclulating vein itself subobsolete
 with no distinct convexity at the costal margin. This appears to
 agree closely with the type described for the male of H. javanica
 Brunner.
The female subgenital plate is minutely emarginate distad,
 this affording a feature of decided difference from javanica.
Length of body cf 28, 9 31 and 32; length of pronotum cf 7.2,
9 8.8 and 8.8; length of tegmen cf 45, 9 56.7 and 57.8; greatest
width of tegmen cf 11, 9 15.2 and 15.7, meso-caudal width of
tegmen cf 10.1, 9 13.8 and 14.5; length of cephalic femur cf 6.3,
9 8 and 8.2; length of caudal femur cf 27.5, 9 34.8, and -:
length of ovipositor 9.8 and 10.1 mm.
Holochlora maxima new species. Plate XII, figure 5; plate XIV, figure 3.
This insect, known from a single female, is closely related tc
 H. fusco-spinosa Brunner. It differs in the larger size, pale im-
 maculate femoral spines and more deeply cleft apex of the sub-
 genital plate. The tegmina are similar but more heavily maculate,
 this being, however, probably no stronger than in maximum in-
 tensive individuals of that species.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 159
From the female sex of H. javanica Brunner it differs in all the
 features given here under fusco-spinosa to distinguish females of
 that species.
Type: 9 ; Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 701.]
Size very large, form robust. Tegmina tapering very gradually
 distad to meso-distal point, thence tapering strongly to the rather
 broadly rounded apex. Ovipositor as characteristic of the genus;
 proximal plica of dorsal valves acute dorsad but rounded ventrad,
 distance from base of ovipositor to end of plica slightly less than
 half that to apex of ovipositor. Subgenital plate elongate, medio-
 longitudinally carinate, lateral margins concave convergent to
 apex, which is V-emarginate a distance equal to the width of one
 of the two lateral, rounded apices thus formed. This emargination
 is distinctly larger than in fusco-spinosa.
General coloration yellowish, probably green in life. Head with
 a subobsolete postocular fleck of brown, which is continued very
 briefly on the lateral margin of the pronotal disk at the cephalic
 margin as a short linear suffusion. Tegmina with (six and seven)
 dark brown spots in proximal two -thirds of discoidal field near
 median vein and with much weaker but similar spots near ulnar
 vein toward the sutural margin and in areas between the ulnar and
 branches of the median vein. 31 Limbs immaculate, except that
 the last joint of the caudal tarsi is dark brown to near its base;
 spines darkened only at their very tips. Abdomen with a large
 blackish blotch laterad on penultimate tergite. Ovipositor with
 dorsal portion of plica darkened, ovipositor valves embrowned
 except mesad toward base, becoming very dark distad.
Length of body 33.5, length of pronotum 9, caudal width of
 pronotal disk 6.7, length of tegmen 63.9, greatest width of tegmen
 17.8, meso-distal width of tegmen 15.8, length of cephalic femur
 8.3, length of caudal femur 35.3, length of ovipositor 11 mm.
Holochlora javanica Brunner. Plate XIV, figure 4.
1878. H [olochlor a] javanica Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 180.
 [d 1 , 9 ; Java; Sumatra; interior of India.]
Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
The immaculate tegmina, and subgenital plate of the female which
 is cleft in its distal two-fifths, quickly distinguish this insect from
 H. fuscospinosa Brunner and H . maxima here described.
Length of body 32, length of pronotum 8.2, length of tegmen
 54.5, greatest width of tegmen 15.2, meso-caudal width of tegmen
 13.8, length of cephalic femur 7.3, length of caudal femur 27.8,
 length of ovipositor 9.2 mm.
31 Similar but much weaker tegminal spots are indicated in two specimens of
 fusco-spinosa before us.
160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
EULOPHOPHYLLUM new genus
The single species, to include which the present genus is proposed,
 is one of the most distinctive of the Orthoptera. This insect runs
 to the Group Holochlorae, nearest the genus Liotrachela, from
 which it is widely separated by features of the vertex, pronotum,
 tegmina, limbs and ovipositor. In the form and venation of the
 tegmina widest differentiation from any other known katydid is
 found.
Genotype.  Eulophophyllum thaumasium new species.
Head deep, occiput convex with vertex curving and very strongly
 declivent to the facial fastigium, medio-longitudinally sulcate.
 Eyes elongate, vertical, not projecting strongly for the Group and
 very weakly so laterad. Pronotum short, surface of disk weakly
 concave with lateral margins raised in a rounded ridge; lateral
 lobes vertical, with width approximating depth, ventro-caudal
 portion decidedly produced cauclad and broadly rounded. Teg-
 mina very broad; costal margin nearly straight, very weakly and
 evenly convex; sutural margin broadly and evenly convex proximad,
 becoming strongly convex distad, to the rather sharply rounded
 apex at the costal margin. Tegmina with discoidal vein weakly
 and evenly curved to apex, sending seven straight and moderately
 oblique veins to the costal margin, which are parallel to and as
 heavy as the mediastine vein; median vein with two weak distal
 branches which curve distad in brief proximal portion, then recurve
 and run back to the sutural margin as weakly curved veins parallel
 to the similar branches of the ulnar vein. Ulnar vein separated a
 brief distance from the median vein, running to end of proximal
 three-fifths of tegmen, with three branches (the last actually the
 recurved portion of the ulnar vein itself) which recurve sharply and
 run back to the sutural margin as weakly curved, parallel and
 equally separated veins. The branches of these tegminal veins are
 all subparallel with intervening sections of the tegminal surface
 weakly concave. Wings with intercalated triangle apical and
 large. Mesosternal and metasternal lobes small, rounded quad-
 rate. Ovipositor large, broad to the rounded apex, dorsal margin
 denticulate to near base, ventral margin denticulate distad; basal
 plica present, but weakly defined and rounded. Female subgenital
 plate simple. Cephalic coxae spined. Femora moderately heavy.
 Cephalic tibiae with dorsal surface flattened, subsulcate, bearing
 on its internal margin a proximal and an apical spine; auditory
 foramina flattened conchate internally, apert externally.
Eulophophyllum thaumasium new species. Plate XII, figures 6 and 7.
The remarkable tegmina, with costal margin nearly straight and
 sutural margin strongly convex distad, give to the organs of flight,
 when these are spread, a strongly Lepidopteroid contour.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 161
 Type no. 802.]
The following features are noteworthy, in addition to those given
 in the generic diagnosis.
Antennae, beyond first two joints, exceedingly slender. Pro-
 notal disk with cephalic margin weakly concave and caudal margin
 broadly convex, lateral margins straight and moderately divergent
 caudad. Ultimate tergite with a small, transverse, rectangular
 impressed area above the median portion of the supra-anal plate;
 the latter broader than long, simple, triangular. Lateral surfaces
 of ovipositor showing very faint, delicate, transverse striation in
 distal portions. Subgenital plate with lateral portion reflexed,
 roughly triangular, the weakly concave lateral margins converging
 to the rather broadly convex apex. Ventral femoral margins
 specialized as indicated and armed with the following spines.
 Cephalic internal (lamellate) 6 and 6, cephalic external and 1,
 median internal 0, median external (lamellate) 6 and 7, caudal
 internal 3, caudal external 6.
General coloration ochraceous buff, the following portions baryta
 yellow; a vertical subocular line, a very faint postocular line, the
 broad lateral margins of the pronotal disk, the transverse veins of
 the tegmina and a broad stripe including the ulnar vein but evenly
 continued an even distance from the median vein to the tegminal
 apex. Interval between ulnar stripe and median vein of tegmen
 greenish, the surfaces adjacent to the transverse veins showing a
 faint greenish tinge. Antennae of general coloration with very
 widely separated, rather broad annuli, which in proximal half
 are whitish and in distal half very dark brown.
Length of body 26, length of pronotum 5.9, cephalic width of
 pronotal disk 3.8, caudal width of pronotal disk 5.2, depth of
 pronotal lateral lobe 5, width of pronotal lateral lobe 4.7, length
 of tegmen 32.8, greatest width of tegmen 19, length of cephalic
 femur 7.2, length of caudal femur 20.8, length of ovipositor 18,
 greatest (meso-distal) width of ovipositor 3.8 mm.
The type of this extraordinary and leaf-like katydid is unique.
Sympaestria lampra new species. Plate XIV, figures 5 and 6.
This handsome species appears to resemble closely Haan's
 nitidifolia* 2 in general appearance and tegminal venation, differing
 in having the auditory foramina of the cephalic femora conchate
 internally, apert externally.
32 Karny has recently shown that Dohrn was in error in supposing nitidifolia
 assignable to Sympaestria and in considering the Brazilian Slibara cornea Brunner
 a synonym of that species. The differences between those species are there dis-
 cussed, the decision being that nitidifolia is a species of Stibara or a member of a
 genus more nearly related to that entity than to any known Asiatic genus (Zool.
 Mededeel. Rijks Mus. Nat. Hist. Leiden, V, p. WO, (1920).).
162 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
In the three specimens before us, the proximal fork of the first
 branch of the median vein runs to the sutural margin ; in the single
 male, however, the sinistral tegmen has this branch running di-
 rectly into the ulnar vein, as described for the genotype, Sympaestria
 acute-lobata Brunner. Unusual individual variation is shown by
 this same fork being before the middle of the branch in the male,
 beyond the middle of the branch in the Sandakan female and de-
 cidedly beyond the middle of the branch in the Labuan female.
In the tegmina the ulnar vein to near its apex, the median, its
 first branch and forks of the same to near their apices and the dis-
 coidal veins are very heavily defined in the discoidal and scapular
 fields, other venation being scarcely noticeable to the naked eye.
 Type no. 858.]
Size large, form robust but graceful. Vertex rounding strongly
 ventrad, its surface flattened so that in dorsal aspect it appears
 truncate, as wide as first antennal joint, showing mesad a short
 but rather heavy medio-longitudinal sulcus. Pronotum with disk
 feebly convex, broadening evenly caudad to the nearly semicircular
 caudal margin, sharply defined from the vertical lateral lobes by
 well rounded lateral angulation; lateral lobes decidedly deeper than
 long, cephalic margin straight, broadly rounding into the briefly
 straight ventral margin, which rounds even more broadly into the
 weakly convex caudal margin, humeral sinus decided. Tegmina
 and wings fully developed, the former stiff, shell-like, glossy, ap-
 pearing smooth to the naked eye, but under the lens seen to be
 thickly and very finely impressed between the myriad of very
 minute veinlets; veins as described above; tegmina broadest meso-
 proximad, the sutural margin showing there a broadly convex
 angulation, margins convergent distad to the rather strongly
 rounded apex. Ovipositor broad, curved upward, apex rounded,
 dorsal and ventral margins armed distad with regular, small,
 rounded serrulations. Subgenital plate small, convex, longer
 than wide, triangularly acute-angulate produced with apex blunted.
 Cephalic coxae unarmed. Genicular lobes of cephalic and median
 femora rounded, of caudal femora bispinose. Ventral margins of
 cephalic and median femora unarmed, of caudal femora with 2 to
 5 internal and 3 to 6 external, minute, almost microscopic spines.
 Cephalic tibiae rounded and with a single, minute disto-internal
 spine dorsad ; internal auditory foramen conchate (or better termed
 moderately swollen, rimate), external auditory foramen apert.
Allotype: c? ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
 Agrees with female except as follows. Form slightly more
 graceful, pronotum distinctly narrower cephalad. Tegmina with
 surface of stridulating field much as elsewhere, stridulating vein
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 163
weakly defined. Ultimate tergite produced, truncate distad,
 lateral portions convex, mesad showing an angulate concavity
 which is narrowest distad. Supra-anal plate beneath, shield-
 shaped. Cerci slender, simple, cylindrical, tapering and weakly
 curved inward to the apex, which is armed with a very minute
 tooth. Subgenital plate moderately produced, tri-carinate, with
 lateral carinae rounded; distad bluntly V-emarginate, the lateral
 portions truncate and surmounted by small, simple styles, slightly
 longer than the depth of the emargination and three times as long
 as wide.
General coloration rich oil green. Lateral margins of pronotum
 and stridulating field of tegmen yellowish, beyond the sutural
 margin of the tegmina is blackish or has the minute intervals
 between the veinlets blackish, this continued to the apex. Proxi-
 mad on the tegmina, particularly in the marginal field, moderately
 large suffused flecks of darker green or purple drab are indicated.
 Caudal margin of pronotum immaculate in male, faintly margined
 with black in Labuan female, narrowly but distinctly margined
 with black in Sandakan female.
Length of body d* 36, 9 34 and 35.8; length of pronotum d" 8.7,
9 8.9 and 9.4; caudal width of pronotum cf 7, 9 7.2 and 7.7;
length of tegmen cf 53.8, 9 49.2 and 52.7; greatest width of tegmen
c? 18, 9 17.8 and 18.2; length of caudal femur <? 22.3, 9 19.8
and 21.2; length of ovipositor 7 and 7.7 mm.
This handsome species is known from the described pair and a
 paratypic female from Sandakan, British North Borneo, from
Dysmorpha obesa Brunner.
1878. D[ysmorpha] obesa Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 355,
 pi. VIII, fig. 106. [ 9 ; 33 Malacca, [Malay Peninsula].]
Jelabu, British Straits Settlements, Malay Peninsula, 1 9 .
This insect is clearly a higher development from a type similar
 to that of Sympaestria. Brunner separated these species very
 widely, due to the presence in Dysmorpha of apert auditory fora-
 mina on both faces of the cephalic tibiae. Though representing a
 Group, the Dysmorphae, we place it immediately after the genus
 Sy?npae stria.
The female before us is found to resemble the type closely. The
 ovipositor is broad, upcurved, with apex rounded, suggesting the
 type developed in Eulophophyllum.
The richness and beauty of the coloration in this insect is very
 striking. The tegmina are shell-like, glossy, with stridulating
 field blackish brown, except for a few small areas of javel green.
33 A Sumatran male of this species has subsequently been fully described by
 Griffini (Wiener Ent. Zeit, XXVIII, p. 105, {1909).)
164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The other portions of the tegmina are javel green, with numerous
 short, linear streaks of purplish black, the sutural margin yellow
 ocher, interrupted by heavy flecks of blackish brown, which
 become smaller and are marginal in position distad.
Length of body 32, length of pronotum 12.7, 34 caudal width of
 pronotum 9.7, length of tegmen 41, greatest width of tegmen 22.1,
 length of caudal femur 16.7, length of ovipositor 12.8 mm.
Liotrachela cryptisema 35 new species^. Plate XIV, figure 7.
The unique female before us of this species is distinguished from
 its close ally, L. minuta Brunner, by the more slender form, dis-
 tinctly narrower tegmina, slightly longer ovipositor and antennal
 coloration. In these appendages the first joint is blackish brown
 dorso-distad, the second joint solidly blackish brown, in striking
 contrast to the other portions which are of the pale general color-
 ation.
Type: 9 ; Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 803.]
Size small and form slender for the genus. Vertex narrow,
 scarcely wider than the first antennal joint proximad, narrowing
 strongly, then with margins parallel to the blunt apex, with a
 linear sulcation to near apex;declivent in proximal portion, weakly
 declivent in distal portion. Pronotum with disk flattened, its
 lateral margins sharply rounded; lateral lobes distinctly higher
 than wide. Tegmina elongate, slender for the genus; first branch
 of median vein very weakly oblique, branching a short distance
 beyond its median point; second branch distal, strongly oblique,
 unbranched. Cephalic tibiae flattened dorsad, subsulcate briefly
 beyond proximal portion. Ovipositor short, broad, with lateral
 surfaces weakly and minutely tuberculate, curved strongly upward
 proximad, apex rounded, dorsal margin to near base and distal
 third of ventral margin armed with minute, even, rounded teeth.
 Subgenital plate longer than broad, with lateral margins weakly
 convex and convergent to the sharply rounded apex. Ventral
 femoral margins armed with small spines as follows. Cephalic
 internal 3 and 4, cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median
 external 1 and 2, caudal internal 9 and 11, caudal external 10 and 11.
Coloration yellowish, probably green in life, the antennae marked
 as described above. Spines black tipped, except those of cephalic
 tibiae.
Length of body 20, length of pronotum 5.6, caudal width of
 pronotum 4.2, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.8, width of pronotal
34 Though given as 18 mm. for the type, the figure shows this dimension to be
 11.9 for that specimen.
36 In allusion to the easily overlooked, but apparently diagnostic, antennal
 marking.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 165
lateral lobe 3.7, length of tegmen 37.8, greatest width of tegmen
 7.3, length of cephalic femur 6. length of caudal femur 25.7, length
 of ovipositor 6.9 mm.
Liotrachela minuta Brunner.
1878. L[iotrachcla] minuta Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropteriden, p. 184.
 [cf; Luzon, [Philippine Islands].]
Los Bafios, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, February 21,
 1919, (S. G. Yap), 1 <? .
Mount Banahao, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
 1 9.
The previously unknown female of minuta differs only from the
 female of L. cryptisema, here described, in the vertex which is
 broader proximad, in the immaculare antennae and in the pro-
 portions of the pronotum, tegmina and ovipositor.
Length of body 24.7, length of pronotum 6, caudal width of
 pronotum 4.8, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 3.9, length of tegmen 39.3, greatest width of tegmen
 8.7, length of cephalic femur 5.9; length of caudal femur 24.3,
 length of ovipositor 6 mm.
Liotrachela iliganae new species. Plate XIV, figures 8, 9 and 10.
Related to L. minuta Brunner, the male before us differs from
 the male type of that species in its slightly larger size, broader
 tegmina, distinctive genitalia and caudal tibiae which have a small
 dark brown suffusion on their external faces proximad.
Type: cf, Iligan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 804.]
Size slightly larger than minuta, form similar. Vertex much as
 here described for L. cryptisema, except that it is more evenly
 declivent. Pronotum as there described, except that it is slightly
 broader. Tegmina similar except that they are wider, the first
 branch of the median vein forking mesad. Supra -anal plate weakly
 produced to a bilobate apex, with emargination between very
 small and rounded, below which projects the small, acute, trian-
 gular supra-anal plate. Cerci extending caudad nearly to apex of
 subgenital plate, proximal portion cylindrical, feebly tapering and
 feebly recurved; external margin very weakly convex proximad and
 strongly so distad to the acute, toothed apex, which is horizontal
 and directed mesad; internal portion of distal half enlarged into a
 somewhat flattened, rounded triangular projection, the internal
 margin, from the apex of this projection to the apex of the cercus,
 strongly concave and armed to near apex with (9 to 11) minute,
 stout teeth. Subgenital plate with margins moderately convergent
 in proximal portion, produced in two slender, sharp, straight
 spikes in slightly over distal third, the interval between these very
166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
narrowly U-shaped. Ventral femoral margins armed as follows.
 Cephalic internal 3 and 4, cephalic external 0, median internal
 0, median external 3 and 3, caudal internal 7 and 7, caudal external
 6 and 6.
Coloration yellowish, greenish on caudal limbs and tegmina,
 probably uniform green in life. The caudal tibiae are marked as
 described above.
Length of body 25, length of pronotum 6.7, caudal width of
 pronotum 4.7, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.8, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 4. length of tegmen 40, greatest width of tegmen 9,
 length of cephalic femur 5.8, length of caudal femur 27 mm.
In addition to the type, a single immature male is before us,
 secured at Kolambugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, from C. F.
 Baker.
Ephippitytha trigintiduoguttata Serville.
1839. Phaneroptera [Ephippitytha] trigintiduoguttata Serville, Hist. Nat.
 Ins., Orth., p. 422. [cf, Australia.!
Queensland, Australia, 1 9 .
In all, thirty eight small, transverse, brown marks are to be found
 on the tegmina of this specimen.
Caedicia gloriosa new species. Plate XIV, figures 11 and 12.
This beautiful insect in form reminds one of one of the species of
 the New World genus Phaneroptera (Scudderia of recent authors).
 It shows nearest relationship to C. marginata Brunner, differing
 in the unicolorous pronotal disk, more striking and varied coloration
 of head, abdomen and tegmina and in the much more elongate
 limbs. It runs to marginata in Brunner's key, except that the
 caudal margin of the pronotum is not margined with black (Monogr.
 der Phaneropteriden, p. 190, {1878).)
Type : & ; Townsville, Queensland, Australia. [Hebard Col-
 lection, Type no. 789.]
Vertex very slender, evenly and strongly declivent, longitudinally
 sulcate, its apex very slightly enlarged, minutely bilobate. Face
 convex, bounded laterad by a distinct impression which, in turn,
 is bounded by a low rounded ridge running from the eye to the
 clypeal suture. Maxillary palpi with fourth joint four-fifths as
 long as third, one-half as long as fifth. Pronotal disk deplanate,
 lateral margins straight and diverging very weakly caudad, round-
 ing strongly into the nearly vertical lateral lobes; the latter with
 depth subequal to width. Tegmina elongate and narrow, narrow-
 ing gradually distad to the rounded apex; stridulating field very
 narrow; median vein branching at end of proximal third and with
 two distal branches, the first branch curving and running longi-
 tudinally in median portion, forking at end of its proximal three-
 fifths. Supra-anal plate very small and deflexed between cereal
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 167
bases. Cerci moderately elongate, moderately stout, flattened
 cylindrical, curving gently inward to the truncate apex which is
 armed with a row of- minutely microscopic teeth. Subgenital plate
 small, extending caudad a decidedly lesser distance than the cerci,
 apex triangularly emarginate, the lateral extremities bluntly
 rounded. Genicular lobes of femora bidentate. Ventral femoral
 margins armed as follows with small teeth; cephalic internal 5 and
 6, cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median external 5 and 6,
 caudal internal 7, caudal external 9. Cephalic tibiae with dorsal
 surface strongly sulcate, external margin with three and one distal
 small spines.
Head clay color, a postocular buffy line continued on each side
 along the pronotum to its caudal margin and below eyes to clypeal
 suture, this line bordered internally on vertex with hydrangea red
 and with a short median streak of the same color below the eyes.
 Eyes auburn, with a slender longitudinal blackish line. Pronotum
 clay color, the disk evenly washed with hydrangea red. Femora
 clay color with spines mars brown, tibiae and tarsi mars brown.
 Abdomen clay color, with a series of blackish brown markings
 laterad, the dorsal surface showing traces of hydrangea pink.
 Tegmina with anal field ochraceous-tawny margined with black,
 this heavy in area of stridulating field; discoidal field light green,
 scapular field dark green proximad shading into vinaceous, the
 costal margin narrowly white with immediate margin black in
 proximal portions.
Length of body 22.7, length of pronotum 5.8, cephalic width of
 pronotum 2.3, caudal width of pronotum 3.3, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 4.2, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.1, length of tegmen
 36.5, greatest (meso-proximal) width of tegmen 6.7, median width
 of tegmen 6, distal width of tegmen 3.9, length of cephalic femur
 7.8, length of caudal femur 30 mm.
The delicacy of coloration in this species, the type of which is
 unique, gives it an exceptional beauty.
PLATTCAEDICIA new genus
This genus is erected to include species which have a very dif-
 ferent general facies from the genotype of Caedicia, showing to it
 much the same general contrast which, in the New World is found
 between the genera Amblycorypha and Phaneroptera (Scudderia
 of recent authors) .
A general revision of the species of Caedicia is evidently greatly
 needed, the species now included probably representing several
 distinct genera. To Platycaedicia belong major (Brunner), obiensis
 here described and very possibly hospes (Brunner). The latter
 species was described from Amboina and referred to by Brunner
 as an Asiatic species. This is incorrect, Amboina being far east
 of Wallace's line and its fauna distinctively Melanesian.
168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXTV
Genotype.  Placycaedicia obiensis new species.
Agrees closely with Caedicia differing in the following features.
 Cephalic tibiae nearly flat dorsad, showing subobsolete sulcation.
 Pronotum with disk widening distinctly caudad, lateral lobes
 with width distinctly less than depth. Tegmina broad, width
 much greater than the pronotal length, the branches of the median
 vein resultantly more oblique. Limbs decidedly shorter and
 heavier in proportion to the body bulk.
Nothing is to be found of diagnostic importance in the shape of
 the mesosternal and metasternal lobes. It is surprising to find so
 little differe ce after a close comparison of obiensis with the very
 widely different appearing Caedicia gloriosa here described.
Platycaedicia obiensis new species. Plate XIV. figures 13 and 14.
This insect is closely related to P. major (Brunner), differing in
 the decidedly smaller size, narrower tegmina, less numerous spines
 of the dorso-external margin of the cephalic tibia and more numerous
 spines of the ventro -external margin of the caudal femora.
To P. hospes (Brunner) it would appear to be nearest in the
 majority of features, but the slightly sulcate dorsal surface of the
 cephalic tibiae and tria gular mesosternal and metasternal lobes
 in that insect may indicate that these species are actually generically
 distinct.
Type: 9 ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type no.
790.]
Vertex narrow, narrowing and evenly and strongly declivent,
 longitudinally sulcate but with the sharply rounded apex entire.
 Face rather decidedly convex, the depression and ridge on each
 side less decided than in Caedicia gloriosa, here described. Maxil-
 lary palpi with fourth joint two -thirds as long as third, only two
 fifths as long as the very elongate fifth joint. Pronotal disk de-
 planate, lateral margins very weakly concave and diverging moder-
 ately caudad, rounding strongly into the nearly vertical lateral
 lobes ; the latter with depth distinctly greater than width. Tegmina
 elongate and broad sutural margin very broadly and weakly convex
 but curving more broadly into the rounded apex than does the
 costal margin; median vein branching slightly before its median
 point and with four more distal branches the first branch forking
 slightly before end of its proximal third, all of the branches of the
 median vein following a strongly oblique course throughout or in
 greater portion. Ovipositor minute, unarmed, the apices of the
 dorsal valves produced with extremities sharply rounded; basal
 plica with a large, stout, convex-conical projection meso -caudad,
 which is directed caudad, the entire median portion of the plate
 very deeply concave. Subgenital plate very small, rounded tri-
 angular, with apex very briefly and narrowly emarginate. Geni-
1922] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 169
cular lobes of femora bidentate, except those of cephalic femora
 which are very weakly so or are very weakly unidentate. Ventral
 femoral margins armed as follows with small teeth ; cephalic internal
8 and 8, cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median external
9 and 9, caudal internal 12, caudal external 14. Cephalic tibiae
 with dorso-external margin armed with one proximal and one distal
 spine.
General coloration apparently light apple green in life, faded in
 large part to light yellowish brown in this dried specimen. Head
 with a short blackish brown line margining the dorso-internal
 margins of the eyes and another blackish brown fleck immediately
 below each eye. Maxillary palpi with distal joint tipped with
 blackish brown. Pronotum with lateral margins of disk apparently
 weakly defined in more yellowish green, with a small blackish
 brown fleck on each side of cephalic margin immediately within
 the lateral margins. Tegmina with a few dark brown flecks,
 irregularly placed but the majority mesad in areas between the
 ulnar and median veins to the latters first branch; these flecks in-
 conspicuous, but seen under the microscope to be solid and not
 made up of a cluster of minute flecks. Limbs unicolorous.
Length of body 22, length of pronotum 6.7, cephalic width of
 pronotum 2.6, caudal width of pronotum 4.2, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 4.3, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5.4, length of tegmen
 42, greatest (median) width of tegmen 12.7, distal width of tegmen
 9.8, length of cephalic femur 7, length of caudal femur 25.7, length
 of ovipositor 2.3 mm.
Diastella maculata new species. Plate XV, figure 1.
 This species, from Brunner's very inadequate description,
 appears to be closely related to that authors D. flexuoso-cercata,
 described from New Guinea. In the present insect the pronotal
 disk is not concave, while the tegmina are irregularly marked with
 large blotches of darker brown instead of being very weakly orna-
 mented with oblique darker markings.
The heavier structure and pronotum which expands much more
 strongly caudad and has the ventral margins of the lateral lobes
 nearly straight and oblique in the Australian genotype, D. latifolia
 Brunner, may indicate that these species should be separated
 generically. The Melanesian species agree instead with Bolivar's
 genus Diastellida, but differ strikingly from that genus in the very
 conspicuous widening distad of the tegmina.
Type: 9 ; Fakfak, Dutch New Guinea. [Hebard Collection,
 Type no. 481.]
Vertex very strongly declivent, longitudinally sulcate but with
 small, rounded apex entire. Face tumid. Maxillary palpi with
170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
fourth joint three-quarters as long as third, two-fifths as long as
 the very elongate fifth joint. Pronotal disk deplanate, lateral
 margins very weakly concave and diverging moderately caudad,
 rounding strongly into the nearly vertical lateral lobes; the latter
 with width distinctly less than depth, margin from humeral sinus
 to ventro-cephalic angle rounded but showing some flattening
 ventrad. Tegmina coriaceous, due to the very close network of
 veinlets, elongate and broad, expanding with decidedly the greatest
 width distad; median vein branching slightly before its median
 point and with two more distal branches, the first branch forking
 near its base, all of these branches following a strongly oblique
 course. Ovipositor very minute, the genitalia as described on
 page 168 for Platycaedicia obiensis, except that the basal plica is
 not as deeply concave, its projection more slender and the subgenital
 plate has the apical emargination weaker. Ventral femoral margins
 armed with small teeth as follows; cephalic internal 4 and 4, ce-
 phal external 0, median internal 0, median external 4 and 5, caudal
 internal 7 and 8, caudal external 10 and 12.
General coloration ochraceous-buff, showing a greenish tinge in
 the discoidal field of the tegmina. Head with vertex showing a
 mottled suffusion of snuff brown. Antennae snuff brown with
 numerous irregular minute annuli of ochraceous-buff. Dorsal
 surface of pronotum solidly snuff brown to slightly beyond lateral
 margins and thickly but microscopically speckled with bister.
 Tegmina maculate and spotted with bister as figured, the proximal
 suffusion deepening to blackish brown in median portion. Distal
 extremity of cephalic and median femora snuff brown microscop-
 ically speckled with bister, caudal femora similarly marked with
 two additional bands of the same in distal portion. Cephalic
 tibiae triannulate, median femora quinqueannulate with the same.
 Dorsal surface of caudal tibiae seal brown.
Length of body 30, length of pronotum 6.1, cephalic width of
 pronotal disk 3, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.4, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 4.7, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5.2, length of tegmen
 37, median width of tegmen 11.7, greatest (meso-distal) width of
 tegmen 14.6, length of cephalic femur 5.7, length of caudal femur
 20.9, length of ovipositor 1.9 mm.
The type of this handsome species is unique.
Paracaedicia serrata Brunner.
1891. Paracaedicia serrata Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien., XLI,
 d. 103. [ 9 ; Sekar, New Guinea.]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 9 .
This specimen agrees very closely with the original description
 as emended in Bolivar's key (Termes. Fuzetek, XXV, p. 190,
 (1902).) We find the dorsal surface of the cephalic and median
 tibiae to be deplanate but weakly sulcate.
Length of body 32, length of pronotum 8, length of tegmen 49.8
 greatest (median) width of tegmen 13.6, length of caudal femur
 27.3, length of ovipositor 2 mm.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 171
Polichne parvicauda (Stal)
1860. Phaneroptera parvicauda Stal, Kongl. Svenska Freg. Eugenie's Resa.,
 Zool., I, p. 320. [ 9 ; Sydney, [New South Wales], Australia.]
Anerota 36 subcarinata (Bolivar)
1899. Ph [aneroptera] subcarinata Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, LXVIII,
 p. 764. [<?, 9 ; Madura, Southern India.]
Phuc-Son, Annam, November and December, (from H. Fruh-
storfer), 1 cf.
1 9.
Iligan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf .
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 cf, 1 9 .
These specimens agree closely with material from southern India
in the collection of the author. The females from Mount Makiling
and Obi Island, however, do not show the usual and minute pro-
notal speckling.
Anerota furcifera (Stal).
1874. P[haneroptera] furcifera Stal, Recensio Orth., II, p. 29. [<?, Philip-
 pine Islands.]
Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 2 9 .
 Los Banos, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F.
 Baker), 3 cf , 1 9.
Mount Makilung, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
2 tf 1 .
We find no diagnostic difference in tegminal length between this
 species and A. gracilis (Burmeister). In all of the material before
 us of these two species, the tegmina fail to reach the apices of the
 caudal femora by a considerable interval, except in the female of
 the present species from Baguio.
Anerota gracilis (Burmeister)
1838. Ph [aneroptera] gracilis Burmeister, Handb. Ent., II, Abth. II, pt. 1,
 p. 690. [<?, 9; Java.]
1839. Phaneroplera brevis Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 418. [d\ 9 ;
Sandakan, British North Boreno, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf.
36 This name has recently been proposed by Caudell, Jour. Washington Acad.
 Sci., XI, p. 488, (1921). It takes the place of Phaneroplera of recent authors and
 Gryllus falcatus Poda is designated genotype. That author there fixes the geno-
 type of Phaneroplera as Locusta curvicauda deGeer, this being the first valid
 genotypic fixation for that genus. As a result, the genus Phaneroptera now stands
 as valid for the North American genus recognized as Scudderia by recent authors,
 Scudderia falling as a synonym of Phaneroptera.
172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cT,
Kirby has already synonymized brevis and Stal's subnotata from
 the Philippines. Burmeister's gracilis is not preoccupied by
 gracilis of Germar, 1817, as supposed by Karny, 37 Germar having
 described a Locusta gracilis.
MECOPOD1NAE
After careful consideration of the literature and comparison of
 the species before us, we believe it best to follow Bolivar's arrange-
 ment of the sections and genera of this subfamily. 38 The remark-
 able development of the pronotum in the Section Phyllophori does
 not, in our opinion, warrant its recognition as a distinct subfamily. 39
 The Sections Phrictae and Segestini 40 are, indeed, both more widely
 divergent from the Section Mecopodi.
Section PHRICTAE
 CHLORACANTHA new genus
This genus is based on a single remarkable species here described,
 differing in a number of important features from the other genera
 of Section Phrictae. In fact the wholly unarmed femora and
 caudal tibiae, which are armed distad with a single small pair of
 ventral spurs, may oblige placement of this insect in a section of
 its own. The single species known is of very small size for the
Genotype.  Chloracantha lampra new species.
Antennal scrobes very large, their margins moderately produced
 latero-ventrad and produced, attingent and rounding dorso-mesad;
 thus with narrowly triangular, sulcate vertex fitting tightly between
 them dorsad and the very narrowly triangular facial fastigium
 similarly fitting tightly between them on the cephalic face. Eyes
 globose and very prominent. Antennae very long, with proximal
 joints smooth. Frons reclinate, smooth, slightly higher than wide.
 Pronotum with disk flat, the two transverse sulci straight and deep,
 with a weakly indicated medio-longitudinal sulcus; cephalic and
 caudal margins of disk both very feebly convex and nodulose,
 lateral margins straight, nearly parallel, armed with large, rounded
 spines. Lateral lobes of pronotum vertical, decidedly longer than
37 Zool. Mededeel, Rijks Mus. Nat. Hist. Leiden (1920); and Philippine Jour.
 Sci., XVIII, p. 616, (1921).
38 Ann. Mus. Nat. Hungarici, I, pp. 161 to 178, (1903).
39 Recognized by Caudell (Gen. his., Fasc. 188, Orth., Locustidae, p. 7, {1912).)
40 See page 176, for our reasons for changing the name of this section from the
 Moristini to the Segestini.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 173
deep, humeral sinus subobsolete. Tegmina foliaceous, rounding
 broadly distad at apex, veins and veinlets strongly denned in color,
 stridulating area large, with a large oval veinless area caudad.
 Wings small, parachute like, showing distinct reduction and in-
 capable of sustained flight. Prosternum strongly bispinose. Meso-
 sternum with cephalic margin raised and tuberculate, this and the
 metasternum produced caudad in rounded -triangular lobes. Ce-
 phalic and median coxae bluntly angled proximad, the former with
 a heavy externo-lafceral spine. Limbs slender. Femora unarmed,
 the genicular lobes angulate-rotundate; cephalic femora carinate
 dorsad, much longer than the median femora. Cephalic tibiae
 flattened dorsad between the very slightly raised lateral margins,
 this surface entirely unarmed; auditory foramina apert on both
 sides.
Chloracantha lampra new species. Plate XIV, figures 15 and 16; plate XV, figure 2.
This species is widely distinguished from those of the genera,
 nearest to which it is placed, by its small size and great differences
 in the pronotal, tegminal and limb development.
The heavily spined lateral margins of the pronotum and green
 coloration, with beautifully but delicately marked tegmina, give
 this little insect a very distinctive appearance.
Type: cf 1 ; Townsville, Queensland, Australia. [Hebard Col-
 lection, Type no. 807.]
In addition to the characters given in the generic description,
 the following are noted. Size small, form moderately slender.
 Maxillary palpi moderately elongate, fourth joint slightly shorter
 than third, third three-quarters as long as the fifth, the latter ex-
 panding distad at the obliquely truncate apex. Lateral margins
 of pronotal disk with large, rather slender, blunt spines, directed
 laterad and weakly dorsad, two on the prozona, two on the meso-
 zona and three on the metazona on each side, the first and last
 much smaller than the others; lateral lobes with ventral margin
 nearly straight and weakly oblique, this margin and the rounded
 ventral angles supplied with irregular tubercles, three such tubercles
 being also present on the face of the lateral lobe. Tegminal vena-
 tion forming a large and rather irregular series of angular areas;
 apex of tegmen at costal margin, broadly rounded. Supra-anal
 plate produced in a hooded lobe, with sides curling inward so that
 only a narrow vertical slit is seen meso-caudad and completely
 concealing the cerci. Subgenital plate small, narrowing to the
 narrowly V-emarginate apex. Cephalic tibiae narrow very gradu-
 ally beyond the auditory foramina.
General coloration light elm green. Eyes warm sepia. An-
 tennae verona brown. Tegmina with veins outlined in elm green,
 the areolae between light elm green in central portions, margined
 with greenish buff about the periphery of each, with a number of
 irregularly placed, round spots of apricot yellow; toward the costal
174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
margin the tegmina become colorless, like ground-glass, with
 immediate margin buffy, this preceded by a very narrow suffusion
 of hydrangea red proximad; the veinless area of the stridulating
 field is also colorless, like ground-glass. Head, except vertex
 (which is light elm green and occiput which is washed with that
 color), and narrow portion of lateral lobes of pronotum, toward
 ventral margin buffy. Wings transparent but showing some opaque
 tendency like ground-glass, the cross-veinlets narrowly outlined
 in barium yellow. Limbs unicolorous, light elm green.
Length of body 16, length of pronotum 4.2, greatest pronotal
 width 2.9, height of longest lateral pronotal spine .8, depth of
 pronotal lateral lobe 2.2, length of pronotall ateral lobe 3.9, length
 of tegmen 13.4, median width of tegmen 5.1, length of cephalic
 femur 8.3, length of median femur 7, length of caudal femur
 13.2 mm.
The type of this beautiful species is unique.
Mossula kiriwina new species. Plate XIV, figures 17 and 18.
This insect is nearest M. salomonis Kirby, apparently differing
 in the dark occiput, pale proximal portions of the antennae, dark
 caudal margin of the pronotal disk, narrower tegmina and shorter
 limbs.
In general appearance and the majority of generic and higher
 characters it is seen to agree closely with the species before us, here
 recorded as Paradiaphlebus notatus Brunner. In such features it
 differs primarily in having the cephalic femora with auditory fora-
 mina flattened conchate and in the vertex, which tapers to a minute
 rounded point with sides swollen, then falling away and sharply
 concave declivent to another similar projection, immediately above
 its intersection with the facial fastigium.
The present group, including these genera and Diaphlebus,
 requires careful revision and until this is done the proper number
 of valid genera contained can not be determined.
Type: cf ; Kiriwina, Trobriand Island, Melanesia. 41 [Hebard
Collection, Type no. 808.]
Form moderately robust. Eyes large, larger than in P. notatus.
 Vertex as described above. Maxillary palpi with fourth joint
 slender proximad, three-fifths as long as third, third joint nearly
 as the elongate, thickened, very weakly expanding and very weakly
 curved fifth joint. Pronotum with surface coarsely and heavily
 wrinkeled, shaped much as in P. notatus, disk flattened and moder-
 ately concave caudad; caudal margin truncate, showing a very
 slight convexity; lateral lobes longer than deep, the humeral sinus
 distinct but not deep. Tegmina and wings fully developed; the
41 Situated off the northeastern coast of New Guinea.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 175
former narrowing very gradually to the broadly rounded apex,
 veinlets very numerous and coarse, even in stridulating field, stri-
 dulating vein obsolete. Wings parachute-like, fully developed.
 Prosternum bispinose. Mesosternal lobes acute-angulate, meta-
 sternal lobes rounded, truncate caudad. Ultimate tergite weakly
 produced with lateral margins straight and very strongly convergent
 to median portion, which is shallowly and transversely emarginate,
 the proximo-lateral angles of this emargination rounded and its
 basal margin transverse. Below this portion is the rotundato-
 trigonal supra-anal plate. Cercus cylindrical, weakly incurved,
 tapering to the rounded apex, which is surmounted by a minute
 tooth, directed mesad. Subgenital plate rectangulate-emarginate
 distad, the lateral apices each bearing a heavy, straight style, nearly
 four times as long as broad. Femoral genicular lobes unispinose.
 Ventral femoral margins armed with the following number of spines.
 Cephalic internal 4, cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median
 external 4 and 5, caudal internal 7 and 9, caudal external 10 and 11.
 Cephalic tibiae with auditory foramina flattened conchate, but with
 slit wider than is usual in this type, these members flattened dorsad.
 Armament of tibiae as in P. notatus. Cephalic tibiae with an
 apical spine dorsad on each side and with two other spines on
 external margin. Caudal tibiae armed distad with three pairs of
General coloration chamois. 42 Head with entire occiput suffused
 with blackish mummy brown; suture at base of antennal scrobes,
 twin subocular flecks and a median pair of weak suffusions on face
 and clypeus also this color. Pronotum with cingulate caudal
 margin blackish mummy brown, the adjacent portions of the disk
 and of the tegminal stridulating field suffused with this color as
 well. Tegmina with minute intervals between veinlets appearing
 slightly darker and with a few exceedingly weak brownish suffusions
 along the sutural margin. Wings brownish buff. Femora with
 spines blackish mummy brown, these members suffused with this
 color at apices also.
Length of body 38, length of pronotum 7.8, caudal width of pro-
 notum 5.9, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5.1, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 5.8, length of tegmen 42.2, median width of tegmen 11,
 distal width of tegmen 7.8, length of cephalic femur 14, length of
 caudal femur 33 mm.
Paradiaphlebus notatus (Brunner) Plate XVI, figure 1.
189S. D[iaphlebus] notatus Brunner, Abh. Senckenb. Naturforsch. Ges.,
 XXIV, p. 258, pi. XIX, fig. 45. [&; Halmahera, [Gilolo Island, Mo-
 luccas].]
42 The sinistral caudal femur distad and the proximal portion of the sinistral
 caudal tibia are washed with light green. This appears to be a stain rather than
 the survival in a dried specimen of patches of green, which specimen in life was
 of a general green coloration.
176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
This specimen agrees closely with the very inadequate description
 given by Brunner and with his figure, except that in the latter the
 auditory foramen is shown as fully conchate and the spines of the
 ventral margin of the caudal femora are heavier. These differences
 may be due to inaccuracies in drawing, as Kirby has alread} r
 assigned the species to the genus Paradiaphlebus, 43 a genus erected
 by Bolivar 44 to include those species previously assigned to Diaph-
 lebus, in which the auditory foramina are apert. .
In the present specimen the general coloration is light green, the
 pronotal dorsum, apices of the femora and distal half of the ovi-
 positor suffused with brown. The tegmina have the veinlets of
 the sfcridulating field heavy and buffy, beyond along the costal
 margin more delicate, but of the same color. The intervals between
 these veinlets are brown toward the anal vein, but blackish toward
 the sutural margin to the apices of the tegmina, this invading the
 veins at the apex of the stridulating field and there forming a large,
 longitudinal blackish suffusion. The ovipositor is nearly straight,
 curving very weakly dorsad. The subgenital plate is scoop-shaped,
 with lateral margins concave-convergent to apex, which is shallowly
 concave-emarginate, with a very small rounded projection at each
 side. The cephalic tibiae have the auditory foramina apert, but
 with ventral margin distinctly lamellate, particularly proximad.
 The ventral femoral margins are armed with the following spines.
 Cephalic internal 5 and 5, cephalic external 0, median internal 0,
 median external 6 and 6, caudal internal 7 and 7, caudal external
 12 and 12.
Length of body 40, length of pronotum 6.8, caudal width of pro-
 notum 5.8, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 4.7, width of pronotal
 lateral lobe 4.8, length of tegmen 37, median width of tegmen 10,
 distal width of tegmen 7, length of cephalic femur 13.9, length of
 caudal femur 32.8, length of ovispositor (estimated, apex broken
 off) over 30 mm.
Section SEGESTINI
We are obliged to change the name of this section, previously
 known as the Moristini. This is due to the fact that Moristus Stal
 falls as a synonym of Sexava Walker, as has been indicated by
 Kirby.
Segestes vittaticeps Stal.
1877. S [egestes] vittaticeps Stal, Ofv. K. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1877, No. 10,
 p. 45. [cf , 9 ; Philippine Islands.]
Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 d\
 2 9.
From the present material it is seen that certain features, used
"Syn. Cat. Orth., II, p. 358, (1906).
44 Ann. Mus. Nat. Hungarici, I, p. 165, (1903).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 177
by Redtenbacher to separate his closely related Philippine S. punc-
 tipes, are not valid. In the present material the spines of the
 caudal femora are blackish brown, tinged at their bases with the
 same color, while the dorso-internal margins of the median tibiae
 are armed with from two to four spines, sometimes in the same
 specimen. The ovipositor is straight, not weakly curved, but this
 again does not appear to constitute a safe specific character in the
We recognize punctipes as valid due to the female subgenital
 plate, described as "triangularis, elongata, acuminata, apice
 incisa, lobis angustis acuminatis." In the females here recorded
 this plate is short, the lateral margins strongly convergent and
 rounding into the apex, which is weakly rotundato -trigonal emar-
 ginate, in this respect agreeing more closely with S. unicolor
 Redtenbacher, from Pelew Island.
The heavy blackish brown suffusion on the dorsal half of the
 internal face of the caudal femora proximad is a striking feature
 in the material at hand. Ventral femoral margins showing the
 following range of spines in the series. Cephalic internal to 1,
 cephalic external 0, median internal 0, median external 0, caudal
 internal 7 to 9, caudal external 8 to 14.
Length of body cf 35, 9 42 and 40.5; length of pronotum d" 5.5,
9 6 and 6.2; caudal width of pronotum cf 4, 9 4.2 and 4.4; length
of tegmen c? 39, 9 44.6 and 45.3; greatest width of tegmen d" 5.5,
9 6.5 and 6.6; length of caudal femur cf 29, 9 31 and 32.7; length
of ovipositor 20.3 and 22.7 mm.
Segestes frater new species. Plate XVI, figure 2.
This insect shows a most remarkable general resemblance to
 Segestidea soror, here described from the same locality. That
 species is particularly distinguished by the more evidently rugulose
 pronotum with shallower lateral lobes, tegmina which are slightly
 broader distad and there run to a point at the sutural margin,
 heavier and fewer dark spots on the tegmina, dark internal suffusion
 of the caudal femora and presence of a small spine disto-dorsad
 on the external surface of the cephalic tibiae. These differences
 would appear to make confusion impossible, but, were the specimens
 not carefully examined, their general resemblance is so decided
 that one might easily fail to recognize the presence of two species.
The present insect is nearest the decidedly smaller S. unicolor
 Redtenbacher, described from Pelew Island. It differs further in
178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
having the first branch of the median vein of the tegmina springing
 from decidedly beyond the median point and in having the ventral
 margins of the median femora unarmed.
Type: 9 ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type
 no. 809.]
Size large for the genus, 45 form elongate. Vertex narrow, acum-
 inate, produced distinctly beyond plane of face, sulcate from near
 occiput to apex. Pronotum rugulose, polished and appearing
 rather smooth to the naked eye; disk with cephalic margin broadly
 convex but showing a trace of angulation, caudal margin broadly
 convex, transverse sulci distinct, a medio-longitudinal carina feebly
 indicated cephalad and caudad, obsolete elsewhere but supplanted
 by a short deep sulcus before the principal sulcus; lateral lobes as
 deep as long, ventral margin rounded obtuse-angulate. Tegmina
 and wings very elongate; the former narrowing very gradually
 distad, with rounded apex median in position, median vein with
 first branch slightly before end of proximal three-fifths and with
 two distal branches. Ovipositor elongate, slender, unarmed,
 straight. Subgenital plate with length approximating width,
 convex, margin bilobate distad with a small triangular median
 emargination. Ventral femoral margins armed with small spines,
 as follows. Cephalic internal 2 and 3, cephalic external 0, median
 internal 0, median external 0, caudal internal 12 and 13, caudal
 external 11 and 13. Femora with genicular lobes unispinose,
 except the internal of the caudal femora which are bispinose.
 Thickened portion of caudal femora with low convexities on its
 dorsal surface. Cephalic tibiae with auditory foramina apert on
 internal face, conchate on external face, dorsal surface sulcate and
 entirely unarmed.
General coloration clay color. Antennae very feebly suban-
 nulate. Tegmina with flecks of warm sepia in areas between
 median vein and its first branch and in areas between median,
 mediastine and ulnar veins. Femora verona brown, heavily
 flecked and marked with clay color, the caudal femora paling distad,
 spines tipped with dark brown. Ventral surface of abdomen
 rufous. Ovipositor cinnamon buff shading to chestnut distad.
Length of body 52.5, length of pronotum 7.7, caudal width of
 pronotum 5.8, length of pronotal lateral lobe 5, depth of pronotal
 lateral lobe 5.1, length of tegmen 66.8, greatest width of tegmen
 9.7, distal width of tegmen 6.7, length of cephalic femur 15.1, length
 of caudal femur 37, length of ovipositor 30, greatest width of ovi-
 positor beyond base 2.8 mm.
Segestidea soror new species. Plate XVI, figures 3 and 4.
We have compared this species with Segestes frater, here de-
46 In fact largest of the genus, excepting S. decoratus Redtenbacher, which
 hpecies may very possibly be referable to Segestidea.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 179
scribed. It shows a closer general resemblance to that insect
 than to any of the known species of Segestidea.
Type : 9 ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type no.
 810.]
Size rather large for the genus, form elongate. Vertex narrow,
 acuminate, produced distinctly beyond plane of face, sulcate almost
 to apex. Pronotum rugulose, moderately polished but appearing
 rough to the naked eye; disk with cephalic margin broadly convex
 and showing no trace of angulation, caudal margin truncate, very
 broadly convex, transverse sulci decided, a medio-longitudinal
 line developing into a sulcus between the transverse sulci; lateral
 lobes longer than deep. Tegmina and wings very elongate; the
 former narrow, narrowing very slightly to the sharply angulate
 apex, which is at slightly less than a right angle, formed by the
 costal margin curving broadly to the sutural margin; median vein
 with first branch slightly before end of proximal two -thirds and
 with two distal branches. Ovipositor elongate, slender, unarmed,
 showing a very faint upward curvature. Subgenital plate broader
 than long, triangular, lateral margins convergent to the briefly
 and broadly U-emarginate apex, the lateral portions of whicn are
 rounded. Femora with genicular lobes unispinose. Thickened
 portions of caudal femora with low convexities on dorsal surface,
 these slightly more pronounced than in Segestes frater. Ventral
 femoral margins armed with small spines, as follows. Cephalic
 internal c? 4 and 5, 9 5 and 6 ; cephalic external ; median internal
 0; median external d 1 3 and 3, 9 1 and 4; caudal internal d 1 14
 and 16, 9 14 and 14; caudal external cf 11 and 12, 9 13 and 14.
 Cephalic tibiae with auditory foramina apert on internal face,
 conchate on external face, dorsal surface sulcate, armed with a
 single small disto-external spine.
Allotype: d ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with female, except as follows. Size smaller, form
 slightly more slender. Supra-anal plate rotundato-trigonal, as
 long as wide. Cerci tapering and curving evenly inward and
 upward to a small apical tooth; a plate beneath on each side bearing
 a small spine. Subgenital plate elongate, very slender to apex,
 which is V-emarginate, the lateral portions thus formed with apices
 surmounted by very small, rounded styles, no longer than wide.
General coloration clay color. Antennae weakly marbled with
 cinnamon-buff and isabella color. Tegmina with solid blackish
 brown flecks in scapular field and between median vein and its
 branch and proximal portion of ulnar vein. These markings more
 conspicuous and fewer than in Segestes frater. Femora verona
 brown heavily overlaid and flecked with cinnamon-buff. Caudal
 femora proximad, in ventral half of internal surface, heavily suffused
 with blackish brown; spines tipped with dark brown. Internal
 genicular areas of caudal femora and immediate base of caudal
 tibiae dorsad blackish brown. Ovipositor clay color, shading to
180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
deep chestnut distad. Ventral surface of abdomen discolored,
 chestnut; in male clay color.
Length of body cf 43.5, 9 56.4; length of pronotum d* 8, 9 8;
 caudal width of pronotum cf 5.7, 9 5.7; length of pronotal lateral
 lobe d" 5.7, 9 5.9; depth of pronotal lateral lobe c 71 4.2, 9 4.8;
 length of tegmen cf 1 58.9, 9 62.7; greatest width of tegmen d 1 9.8,
 9 10; distal width of tegmen d" 7.8, 9 8.5; length of cephalic
 femur d> 15.7, 9 16; length of caudal femur d" 36.2, 9 38; length
 of ovipositor 27.2; greatest width of ovipositor beyond base 2.9 mm.
Sexava coriacea (Linnaeus)
1788. G[ryllus] T[ettigonia] coriaceus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, I, p. 430.
 [[East] Indies.]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 4 d\ 4 9 .
Amboina Island, Moluccas, 33 d 1 , 18 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
Of the material before us, two males and three females from
 Obi are rich green, the others brown. Both phases are represented
 in the Amboina series, but many of the specimens are badly dis-
 colored.
The measurements for the Obi series are as follows. Length of
 body d 1 62 to 69, 9 66 to 74; length of pronotum d" 9.8 to 10,
 9 11.2 to 11.7; length of pronotal lateral lobe c? 6.3 to 6.4, 9 6.9
 to 7.2; depth of pronotal lateral lobe <? 6.5 to 6.6, 9 7.1 to 7.4;
 length of tegmen cf 68 to 71.5, 9 83.5 to 89; meso-distal width of
 tegmen 46 c? 14.9 to 15.3, 9 16.8 to 18.7; length of caudal femur
 cf 41 to 41.9, 9 47 to 48; length of ovipositor 43 to 47 mm.
Section MECOPODI
 Characta Iabuanae new species. Plate XVI, figure 5.
Closely related to C. bitubeixulata Redtenbacher, the present
 insect is distinguished by the generally smaller size; shorter teg-
 mina, which have a greater number of oblique veins at the distal
 margin; lateral margins of the pronotal disk, which are coarsely
 but equally tuberculate in prozonal, mesozonal and metazonal sec-
 tions, and auditory foramina of cephalic tibiae, which are apert,
 the external only showing some thickening and lamellation of its
 ventral margin.
Type no. 811.]
Size smaller, form more stocky than in bituberculata. Vertex
 sulcate, rounded, with strongly bifid apex distinctly narrower than
46 These organs are curved over the dorsum proximad, so that an accurate
 measurement of the greatest width cannot be taken.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 181
first antennal joint, separated a brief distance from the weakly
 bituberculate facial fastigium. Eyes broad oval, more prominent
 than in Mecopoda elongata (Linnaeus). Pronotal disk flattened,
 showing very weak concavity, its surface rugulose, with two distinct
 transverse sutures, which laterad form decided V-emarginations
 of the lateral margins; cephalic margin weakly emarginate, with
 median section transverse (or subconvex) ; caudal margin subtrun-
 cate, showing very weak subangular convexity, with a minute but
 conspicuous, erect tubercle mesad; lateral margins moderately
 divergent caudad and subconvex, coarsely and equally tuberculate,
 this slightly rregular in mesozonal section. Lateral lobes of pro-
 notum longer than deep; ventral margin horizontal, except in
 caudal portion, where it is moderately oblique, ventro-cephalic
 angle subdenticulate, a thoracic plate with below a small rounded
 denticulation. Tegmina and wings showing slight reduction, not
 extending beyond apices of caudal femora. Tegmina broadening
 to meso-distal point, then narrowing to the apex, which is median
 in position and rounded, the convexity of the sutural margin to the
 apex less than that of the costal margin, the former being in this
 portion subundulate. Tegminal venation somewhat irregular,
 first branch of median vein near end of proximal three-fifths, this
 branch forking at extremity of largest areola (in which is contained
 the desiccated spot), a second branch distad, which again forks
 distad. Ovipositor moderately elongate, evenly and weakly
 curved upward, of the same general type as in Mecopoda elongata
 but heavier. Subgenital plate convex, rounded triangular, with
 apex weakly angulate-emarginate. Cephalic and median femora
 roughened, with minute tubercles. Caudal femora armed dorsad
 and ventrad with long, heavy spines. Cephalic tibiae with apert
 auditory foramina, as described above, dorsal surface weakly sul-
 cate, with lateral margins spined.
General coloration ochraceous-tawny, often with a more buffy
 tinge. Antennae darker, with short, widely spaced, buffy annuli
 distad. Lateral lobes of pronotum and tegmina toward lateral
 margins of anal field often somewhat darker. Tegmina moderately
 glossy, with small suffusions of dark brown along distal portion of
 sutural margin at apices of veins and with one large patch (and
 sometimes one or two smaller patches in adjacent areolae), which
 appears desiccated, meso-distad in median portion of largest areola
 of discoidal field.
Three paratypes, bearing the same data as the type, are at hand.
182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Mecopoda elongata (Linnaeus)
1758. G[ryllus] T [etrigonia] elongatus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XI, 429-
 [India.]
Baker), 3 c? .
Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
 Puerto Princesa, Palawan, Philippine Islands, (from C. F.
 Baker), 1 c?
Obi Island, Moluccas, 3 cf , 8 9 .
Amboina Island, Moluccas, 1 d", 2 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
2 tf, 1 9,1 juv. 9.
Penang Island, British Straits Settlements, VIII, 1889, (from
 H. de Saussure), 1 d\ [A. N. S. P.].
The green color phase of this common insect is represented by
 the following specimens, the remainder of the series being of dif-
 ferent brown phases. Los Bafios 1 d" ; Mount Makiling 1 9 ;
 Obi 3 d\ 2 9 ; Singapore 2 d 1 , 1 juv. 9 .
EUMECOPODA new genus
The present genus is erected to include certain of the species pre-
 viously placed in Mecopoda Serville.
Genotype.  Eumecopoda cyrtoscelis (Karsch).
This genus differs from Mecopoda, as here restricted, in the fol-
 lowing features. Head with apex of vertex transversely and bluntly
 carinate. Pronotum with disk flattened, subconcave, lateral
 margins carinate, overhanging, the incisions formed by the trans-
 verse sulci sharply angulate emarginate, caudal margin with a
 minute dorsal tubercle mesad, which is often subobsolete. Tegmina
 with sutural margin, from meso-distal point of greatest width,
 broadly convex, then broadly concave to the acute apex, so that
 the tips of the tegmina are somewhat falcate. Cephalic tibiae
 with auditory foramina conchate to subconchate, in the latter
 condition partly apert but with ventral margin produced and cov-
 ering a portion of the membrane. Caudal femora dorsad and
 laterad bluntly and longitudinally carinate, there supplied dorsad
 with blunt tubercles to relatively heavy, blunt tuberculations.
To this genus belong the following species. At the present time
 insufficient material is available to determine whether all of these
 are valid.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 183
1888. cyrtoscelis (Karsch) Segaar Bay, southwestern Dutch
New Guinea.
 1891. walkeri (Kirby) Philippine islands.
1891. karschi (Kirby) Queensland, Australia.
1891. regina (Kirby) Duke of York Island, Bismarck
Archipelago.
 1898. superba (Bolivar) Hassam, New Guinea.
1908. moluccarum (Grifnni) Celebes, the Islands of Amboina
and Gilolo.
 1922. reducta new species Butuan, Mindanao, Philippine
Islands.
 Eumecopoda reducta new species. Plate XVI, figure 6.
This insect is apparently nearest E. walkeri (Kirby), the only
 previously known Malayan member of the present genus. From
 the unsatisfactory description of the unique female type of that
 insect, the single male before us is separated by the immaculate
 vertex and unarmed ventral femoral margins. Adequate diagnosis
 of walkeri will probably reveal other distinctive features.
Compared with the other species of Eumecopoda, the present
 insect differs greatly in the very much shorter limbs and organs of
 flight, the unarmed ventral femoral margins and caudal femora
 which are as strongly carinate as in E. cyrtoscelis (Karsch), but
 bear fewer and smaller tuberculations. From the males before us,
 further difference is shown by the strong medio-dorsal projections
 of the abdominal tergites and the much shorter cerci and subgenital
 plate, the latter bearing at its apices minute but distinct styles. 47
In general form the present insect shows closer resemblance to
 species of the genus Characta, from which genus it may be instantly
 separated by the broad, transversely carinate and undivided
 vertex.
Type: cf ; Butuan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 853.]
Size comparatively small, form very short for the genus. Vertex
 truncate distad, nearly transverse, bluntly but decidedly trans-
 .versely carinate, due to a weak concavity of the dorsal surface
 toward this carina, which itself, unliked in the other species, pro-
 jects slightly beyond the plane of the face. Face and genae mod-
 erately, occiput and pronotum very thickly impresso-punctulate.
 Pronotum shorter than in other species, with incisions of the
 strongly carinate lateral margins, at transverse sulci, much smaller
47 Smaller but otherwise as in Mecopoda elongata (Linnaeus).
184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
and less conspicuous; with a medio-longitudinal line, which becomes
 subcarinate in metazonal portion, but is only slightly heavier at
 the caudal margin. Pronotal lateral lobes as here described for
 E. moluccarum (Griffini),but with prothoracic pleurites unarmed.
 Tegmina short and broad, costal margin showing distinct obtuse-
 angulation slightly beyond median point, sutural margin rounding
 broadly, then very fainty and broadly concave (indicating very weak
 falcation) to the acute apex, situated on the costal margin and
 forming an angle of slightly less than ninety degrees. Wings
 failing to reach apices of tegmina by a short distance. Abdomen
 with distal tergites, excepting the ultimate, each produced meso-
 caudad in a decided finger-like projection, directed caudad; ultimate
 tergite with a triangularly impressed area before the triangular
 supra-anal plate. Cerci elongate, but decidedly shorter than in
 moluccarum, tapering strongly and straight, then toward apex
 incurved, the apex terminating in a minute tooth. Subgenital
 plate elongate produced, but decidedly shorter than in moluccarum,
 deeply V-emarginate distad, the lateral portions weakly divergent,
 tapering to their narrowly truncate apices, each of which is sur-
 mounted by a minute, rounded, socketed style, twice as long as
 its basal width. Cephalic and median femora rugulose, showing a
 feeble trace of carination dorso-distad. Caudal femora heavy
 proximad, dorso-external and ventro-external surfaces weakly
 concave between the medio-lateral and dorsal carinae, dorsal carina
 with (two or three) blunt but decided tubercles and a few sub-
 tuberculations. Ventral femoral margins unarmed. Cephalic
 tibiae with auditory foramina subconchate.
General coloration that of a dead leaf. Warm sepia, shading to
 tawny-olive on sides of thorax and with greater portion of tegmina
 bay. Limbs blackish, except proximal portions of caudal femora,
 which pale toward tawny-olive. Vertex immaculate. Antennae
 blackish, with widely spaced, short buffy annuli. Tegmina with a
 large blackish spot, meso-proximad in stridulating area; meso-
 distad with a number of small desiccated-appearing patches.
Length of body 25 (shrunken), length of pronotum 8.3, caudal
 width of pronotal disk 8, length of tegmen 43.7, greatest width of
 tegmen 20.8, length of cephalic femur 9.8, length of caudal femur
 33.3, greatest width of caudal femur 6.2 mm.
Eumecopoda cyrtoscelis (Karsch) Plate XV, figure 3; plate XVI, figure 7.
1888. Mecopoda cyrtoscelis Karsch, Ent. Nachr., XIV, p. 146. [Segaar Bay,
 near western extremity of south coast of Dutch New Guinea.]
Setekwa River, opposite Aru Islands on south coast of Dutch
 New Guinea, (from A. S. Meek), 1 d", 1 9 .
The present specimens are very dark, the general coloration
 being blackish brown. Length of body cf 29, 9 42.5; length of
 pronotum tf 8.8, 9 10.1; caudal width of pronotum cf 7.7, 9 9.1;
 length of tegmen cf 57.8, 9 69.1; greatest width of tegmen cf 15.9,
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 185
9 18; length of caudal femur cf 42, 9 51.2; greatest width of
 caudal femur d* 6.3, 9 7.8; length of ovipositor 26.7 mm.
 Eumecopoda moluccarum (Grifflni) Plate XVI, figure 8 and 9.
1908. Mecopoda cyrtoscelis subsp. moluccarum Griffini, Atti Soc. Ital. Sci.
 Nat., XLV1, p. 277. [d\ 9: Ternate (= Amboina); Halmahera,
 [Gilolo].]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 2 d\ 3 9 .
The present species is apparently nearest E. regina (Kirby).
 It differs from the unsatisfactory description of that insect in
 having the dorsal surface of the enlarged proximal portion of the
 caudal femora rugose, coarsely and roundly subdenticulate along
 the dorsal carina, in the proportionately broader tegmina and
 apparently average larger size.
The following description of this little known species is sub-
 mitted for the convenience of future workers.
Female. Size large. Vertex truncate distad, subconvex, trans-
 versely bluntly but decidedly carinate; distinctly wider at sulcus
 formed with frontal fastigium than in E. cyrtoscelis (Karsch).
 Pronotum with a medio-longitudinal line, which becomes sub-
 carinate in metazonal portion, terminating at caudal margin in a
 small rounded tubercle, which scarcely projects caudad of that
 margin. Lateral lobes of pronotum slightly higher than wide,
 perpendicular, ventro-cephalic angles produced in a minute roundly
 acute-angulate projection; ventral margin sinuous, with a produced
 tubercle projecting from a prothoracic pleurite slightly caudad of
 the ventro-cephalic angle; ventro-caudal angle broadly rounded
 and weakly produced. Tegmina broad, expanding to meso-distal
 point, where they are distinctly wider than in cyrtoscelis; distinctly
 falcate distad. Ovipositor elongate, curved weakly upward. Sub-
 genital plate convex, with distal margin rather broadly bilobate.
 Cephalic and median femora rugulose, weakly carinate dorsad in
 distal portions. Caudal femora heavy proximad, specialized as
 described above. Ventral femoral margins armed (in the series)
 as follows. Cephalic internal cf 3 to 5, 9 2 to 3; cephalic external
 cT, 9 ; median internal cf, 9 ; median external c? 3 to 4, 9 3 to 4;
 caudal internal o 71 7 to 8, 9 6 to 8; caudal external d 1 10 to 12,
 9 8 to 12.
Male. Agrees closely with female, differing as follows. Size
 smaller. Median segment and first abdominal tergite each raised
 -in a rather large medio-longitudinal crest, which is suddenly trun-
 cate caudad. Cerci elongate, moderately stout but tapering
 strongly and curving inward to apex, which is more strongly
 curved inward and terminates in a minute tooth. Subgenital
 plate elongate produced, deeply V-emarginate distad, the lateral
 portions weakly divergent, tapering to their acute apices, with-
 out styles, but each, unlike cyrtoscelis, armed with a minute sub-
 apical tooth on the internal margin.
186
General appearance that of a dead leaf. Mars brown to tawny
 olive in coloration. Mottled, with paler ventral portions of
 caudal tibiae heavily banded with suffusions of dark brown at the
 spines. Antennae dark, with five to seven widely spaced, striking
 annuli of buffy. Tegmina mottled in large, solid areas, irregular
 in outline, with different shades of brown and showing often a
 number of desiccated-appearing patches, some of these occasionally
 shining blackish brown, the majority buffy brown. Caudal femoral
 spines dark only at tips. As is usual in this type of coloration, the
 occiput, disk of pronotum and anal field of the tegmina are often
 of a distinctly paler shade than the adjacent portions.
The coloration in such irregularly mottled katydids, which
 clearly resemble dead and dried foliage, is so subject to individual
 variation that it can not be more definitely described for the species.
d"
 body
Obi Island
 Obi Island
34
 36
45.5
 47
pronotum
7.8
 9.5
9.8
 10.3
Obi Island 37.S 48 10.7
56
 65.5
69
72
 74.6
Greatest
 width of
 19.2
20.9
 20.9
22.7
 of caudal
40
 49
51.1
 53.2
 54
width of
caudal
femur
5.8
7.3
7.7
 7.8
 8
 of ovi-
32.1
 32.2
 32.3
The present material indicates that size alone is probably of
 little value in separating the species referable to Eumecopoda.
Macrolyristes imperator Snellen van Vollenhoven.
1865. Macrolyristes imperator Snellen van Vollenhoven, Tijdschr. voor
 Ent., VIII, p. 108, 49 pi. VII, figs. 1 and 2, pi. VIII, figs. A to C. [d\ 9 :
 Java; Borneo.]
Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9
Nias Island, southwest coast of Sumatra, Sunda Islands, 1 cf .
Though not as heavily built as Pseudophyllanax imperialis
 (Montr.), the present species shows the greatest tegminal develop-
 ment found in the Tettigoniidae. The female before us has an
 expanse of 274 millimeters, (10% inches). This, for an insect, is
 truly enormous.
In both sexes the costal margin of the tegmina shows a very feeble
 convexity, the sutural margin broadly convex and curving to meet
 the costal margin at the acute-angulate apex. This gives to the
48 The body of this specimen is shrunken.
49 A paper, with figures, by C. Mulder, on the internal anatomy of this insect
 follows the original description. It is there stated that the species is known in
 Java as "Babang Salak," that it is arboreal and flies at night and that it is seldom
 seen, so that the natives ask five silver gulden for a specimen.
1922] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 187
tegmina the appearance of "oblique truncation" originally de-
 scribed. The enormous stridulating field of the male is 26.4 milli-
 meters in length, 18.3 in width, the stridulating vein 14.7 milli-
 meters long. The large, transparent, rounded speculum of the
 dextral tegmen, bounded by a very high and heavily chitinous wall
 caudad, probably aids greatly in producing what should be one of
 the very loudest of insect stridulations.
The extreme basal slenderness of the caudal femora (these limbs
 are present only in the male before us), armed with rather decided
 spines ventrad, is a striking feature. Greatest width proximad
 3.9, median width 3, distal width 3.7 millimeters. The greater
 distal width is caused by a pronounced medio-longitudinal, dorsal
 carina being there developed. The vental femoral margins are
 armed with spines as follows. Cephalic internal cf 4 and 4,
 9 10; cephalic external 0; median internal 0; median external cf 5
 and 7, 9 11 and 12; caudal internal cf. 11 and 12; caudal external
 cf 14 and 14.
The female before us appears to represent the same species as
 the male, the differences shown being attributable to sexual di-
 versity. This can, however, not be proven conclusively without
 comparison of additional material, though van Vollenhoven was
 satisfied as to the specific agreement of Bornean and Javanese ma-
 terial.
The egg in this species is 16.2 millimeters in length, 3.1 milli-
 meters in greatest width.
Length of body cf 55, 9 67; length of pronotum cf 17, 9 18;
 cephalic width of pronotum cf 7.7, 9 8.4; greatest (meso-caudal)
 width of pronotum cf 17.3, 9 15.9; length of tegmen cf 96, 9 130;
 greatest width of tegmen cf 32, 9 38.9; length of cephalic femur
 cf 27.3, 9 36.8; length of caudal femur cf 56.7, 9  ; length of
 ovipositor 34.3; greatest width of ovipositor beyond immediate
 base 6 mm.
Section PHYLLOPHORI
Hyperhomala woodfordi (Kirby)
1899. Phyllophora woodfordi Kirby, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (7), IV, p. 309,
 pi. VI, fig. 6. [Solomon Islands.]
Honda, Solomon Islands, (P. H. Metcalf), 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.].
Length of body 44, length of pronotum 30.2, greatest width of
 pronotum 13.2, length of mesonotum 24.6, length of tegmen 73.7,
 greatest width of tegmen 26.3, length of caudal femur 37, length
 of ovipositor 29 mm.
188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Phyllophora lanceolate Brunner.
1898. Ph[yllophora] lanceolata Brunner, Abh. Senckenb. Naturforsch.
 Ges., XXIV, p. 263, pi. XIX, fig. 49. [d\ 9 : Halmahera, [Gilolo Island,
 Celebes]; Amboina [Island, Celebes]; Stephansort, New Guinea; New
 Britain and Duke of York Islands, [Bismarck Archipelago].]
Length of body 45.5, length of pronotum 28.7, greatest width
 of pronotum (including marginal spines) 16.8; length of largest
 pronotal marginal spine .8, length of mesonotum 23, length of
 tegmen 63.3, greatest width of tegmen 26.4, length of caudal femur
 30.8, length of ovipositor 24.9 mm.
Sasima truncata (Brunner)
1898. Ph[yllophora] truncata Brunner, Abh. Senckenb. Naturforsch. Ges.,
 XXIV, p. 262, pi. XIX, fig. 48. [ 9 , Key Island.]
New Guinea, 1 d\ [A. N. S. P.].
Length of body 35, length of pronotum 23.3, greatest width of
 pronotum (including marginal spines) 12.2, length of largest pro-
 notal marginal spine 2.3, length of mesonotum 17.3, length of
 tegmen 67, greatest width of tegmen 29.7, length of caudal femur
34 mm.
PSEUDOPHYLLINAE
In the literature on this subfamily several unusual difficulties
 are encountered which we think should be pointed out, to aid the
 student in avoiding further confusion.
Brunner's key, in his Monograph, is particularly unsatisfactory
 in one portion. Sections 4 and 4' under section 3' are exceedingly
 misleading and species running to this point should always be
 tried for both.
The attem )t by Saussure and Pictet, in their "Iconographie des
 Sauterelles Vertes," to use data written them by Redtenbacher, has
 caused a most unfortunate confusion of generic names. That
 study was published in 1892 and Brunner, publishing the "Mono-
 graphic der Pseudophylliden" in 1895, most unfortunately did
 not follow the generic assignments there made. Added to this
 are the older genera described by Walker and ignored by sub-
 sequent authors, which Kirby at last placed in his "Synonymic
 Catalogue of Orthoptera," Vol. Ill, in 1906.
Thus we find Microprion P. and S. a synonym of Phyllomimus
 Stal, but Microprion Brunner a distinct genus, renamed Micropion
 by Kirby. Oxyscelus Brunner a synonym of Tympanoptera P. and
 S., but Tympanoptera Brunner a synonym of Aprion Serville, and
 Aprion P. and S. a synonym of Morsimus Stal. We, however,
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 189
believe Acanthaprion P. and S. to be valid, though also placed
 under Morsimus by Kirby. Chloracris P. and S. is a synonym of
 Pseudophyllus Serville. Capnoptera Brunner is preoccupied and
 Kirby has proposed the name Typhoptera for this genus. Phyl-
 lotribonia P. and S. and Mataeus Karsch are synonyms of Zabalius
 Bolivar. Finally Tarphe Stal is preoccupied by Tegra Walker,
 Termer a Stal by Sanaa Walker and Phanerotus Brunner by Cal-
 limenellus Walker.
Section PSEUDOPHYLLI
 Pseudophyllus harrisoni Rehn.
1902. Pseudophyllus harrisoni Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902,
 p. 21. [9, Sumatra.]
Nias Island, southwest coast of Sumatra, Sunda Islands, 1 9 .
This insect closely resembles the figure of Rhomboptera honor-
 abilis (Brunner) 50 except that the transverse veins of the discoidal
 field alternate at the ulnar and branch of the median veins, being
 neither contiguous (percurrent) or subcontiguous. It appears
 very possible that this character is of no generic value. Should
 this prove to be the case, Rhomboptera would fall as a synonym of
 Pseudophyllus.
The present insect is further separable from R. honorabilis by
 its decidedly larger size, longer limbs and much longer ovipositor.
 The median tibiae are armed with very small spines; the figure of
 honorabilis shows much heavier spines on these members.
Length of body 57.5, 51 length of pronotum 13.6, length of tegmen
 89.7, greatest width of tegmen 24.8, length of caudal femur 29.1,
 length of ovipositor 35.7, greatest width of ovipositor 9 mm.
Cleandrus fortis (Walker)
1869. Pseudophyllus fortis Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., II,
p. 413. [Juv. 9 , Philippine Islands.]
 1877. Cratylus obestis Stal, Ofv. K. Vet.-Akad. Forh., 1877, No. 10, p. 44.
[cf, 9 ; Philippine Islands.]
 1895. Cleandrus latipennis Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, p. 40.
[cf , 9 : Luzon, Philippine Islands; Celebes, [Moluccas].]
Manila, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
Los Banos, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf ,
The dorsal surface of the caudal femora is described as having a
 row of minute spines in fortis, as obsoletely undulate in obesus and
 as smooth in latipennis. These differences we believe due to in-
60 Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, pi. I, fig. 8, (1895).
61 The body length of the type is 57 mm.; 88 mm. including the ovipositor.
190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
dividual variation and in consequence indicate the above synonymy.
 Kirby, in 1906, placed obesus as a synonym of fortis. 52 In the
 present material the dorsal surface of the caudal femora shows a
 row of minute, blunt denticulations in the s )ecimen from Surigao,
 this surface' being smooth in the others, though showing a sub-
 obsolete undulation in the female from Los Banos.
The insect is smaller and more inflated than the other members
 of the genus, in general appearance resembling much more closely
 Cratylus fenestratus (Stoll). 53
Length of body cT 40.5, 9 49.5 to 52.5; length of pronotum
 c? 12, 9 12.2 to 12.3; length of tegmen tf 66.5, 9 70.3 to 75.1;
 greatest width of tegmen 54 o 71 31.5, 9 22.8 to 23.2; length of caudal
 femur d* 21.8, 9 23 to 24; length of ovipositor 31.3 to 35.3; greatest
 width of ovipositor 7.2 to 7.9 mm. 55
 Cleandrus dyaka new species. Plate XVI, figures 10 and 11.
Nearest in relationship to C. neriifolius (Stoll), the present
 species differs in the male sex in the somewhat larger size, more
 elongate tegmina which are not ocellate, distinctive armament of
 the median and caudal femora and caudal tibiae. The only
 markings are a few large brown dots on the tegmina and a curved
 brown line in place of an ocellate marking.
Type: d" ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F. Baker.)
[Hebard Collection, Type no. 812.]
Size medium, form slender for this genus of large and very robust
 insects. Vertex with dorsal surface depressed mesad, small,
 triangular and scarcely projecting beyond plane of face; as char-
 acteristic of genus. Pronotal surface thickly supplied with small,
 acute granules, showing two distinct transverse sulci ; caudal margin
 of disk weakly and bluntly angulate at slightly over ninety degrees
 and supplied with a few low tubercles; lateral lobes with ventro-
 cephalic and ventral portion of margin strongly tuberculate.
 Tegmina inflated, but by no means as much so as in C. fortis
 (Walker), costal margin rather decidedly convex meso-distad,
 mediastine vein oblique. Prosternum unarmed. Cerci stout, with
 a sharp distal spine directed mesad. Subgenital plate very slenderly
 produced, with styles at apices, as long as and slightly stouter than
 the produced portion, forming a Y. Ventral margins of cephalic
62 Syn. Cat. Orth., II, p. 295.
63 A male from Ceylon is in the Academy Collection.
54 Estimated, as the great convexity of the tegmina prevents the exact measure-
 ment being taken.
56 The measurements given by Brunner indicate a very great possibility that
 the largest female which he studied does not represent the present species. It
 seems doubtful also that the same species occurs both in the Philippines and the
 Moluccas.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 191
femora and ventro-internal margin of median femora armed with
 very small spines. Ventro-external margin of median femora and
 ventro-internal margin of caudal femora armed with small but
 elongate spines. Ventro-external margin of caudal femora and
 tibiae and dorsal surface of caudal tibiae armed with large lamellate
 spines, the ultimate of the caudal femora noticeably the largest of
 all. Ventral femoral margins armed with the following number
 of spines. Cephalic internal 5 and 5, cephalic external 6 and 7,
 median internal 6 and 7, median external 7 and 7, caudal internal
 11 and 12, caudal external 10 and 12. Caudal femora dorsad with
 a row of minute tubercles which become broader and weaker distad.
General coloration pale green. Eyes dark brown. Antennae
 with weak brown suffusions, forming elongate and very weak
 annuli. Tegmina in proximal area between anal and ulnar veins
 marked with a curved brown line; areolae between ulnar and first
 branch of median vein with one or two brown flecks in proximo-
 sutural and disto-costal corners, similar flecks in areolae between
 median vein and its branch in proximo-costal corners and a few
 similar flecks in areolae of scapular field.
Length of body 38.5, length of pronotum 11.7, greatest width
 of pronotal disk 10, length of tegmen 76.5, approximate width of
 tegmen 32.5, length of tegminal stridulating field 20.8, length of
 stridulating vein 9.2, length of cephalic femur 11.1, length of caudal
 femur 24.2, length of distal spine of caudal femur 3.1, wid.h of
 same at base 1.9 mm.
Cleandrus titan (White)
1846. Pseudophyllus titan White, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., XVIII, p. 24.
 [9, Silhet, [Assam].]
Khasia Hills, Assam, 1 c?.
Arracon, Yomah Mountains, Burma, (A. V. B. Crumb), 1 9 ,
 [A. N. S. P.].
Toungoo, Burma, (A. V. B. Crumb), 1 cf, [A. N. S. P.].
The male genitalia appear to show little of specific value in the
 genus. In the present male the styles are elongate paddle-shaped.
The tegmina have the branch of the median vein, from near its
 base, showing a very slender blackish line. In the specimen from
 Assam, a whitish ocellate tegminal spot is developed, its periphery
 narrowly blackish with a slender outer ring of purplish brown.
 This specimen has the tegminal veins showing yellowish flecks
 with small interrupted areas of very delicate purplish. The
 Burmese specimens show only a faint trace of an ocellate marking,
 the other features described above scarcely indicated in the female,
 obsolete in the male.
The measurements of the male from Assam are given first
192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Length of body d" 46.5 (shrunken) and 52.5, 9 66; length of
 pronotum cf 18 and 17.2, 9 19.1; greatest width of pronotal disk
 C? 13.7 and 13.8, 9 15; length of tegmen d" 93 and 90.5, 9 108.8;
 width of tegmen (approximated in males) o 71 40 and 40, 9 35;
 length of tegminal stridulating field 25.7 and 26.7; length of stridu-
 lating vein 13 and 12.7; length of cephalic femur a" 16 and 16.2,
 9 15.3; length of caudal femur d" 30 and 29.6, 9 31.4; length of
 ovipositor 29.2 mm.
 Cleandrus colosseus new species. Plate XVI, figures 12 and 13.
This, the largest Pseudophyllid known, is closely related to
 C. titan (White). In addition to the larger size, the male before
 us differs from that sex of titan in the smaller number of equally
 decided pronotal tubercles, the much broader and much more
 inflated tegmina, median femora which are smooth dorsad and
 caudal femora armed with a row of minute blunt tubercles dorsad
 instead of stout spines. The ventral femoral margins are also
 much less strongly armed with much smaller spines, none of which
 show any tendency toward lamellation.
Type : cf ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F. Baker.)
 [Hebard Collection, Type no. 813.]
Size very large and robust. Vertex as in C. dyaka here described.
 Pronotum with surface mesad supplied with (about thirty) stout,
 blunt, prominent tubercles, with two very deeply impressed trans-
 verse sulci; caudal margin of disk weakly and bluntly obtuse
 angulate and supplied with a few low tubercles; lateral lobes with
 margins strongly and thickly tuberculate, these tuberculations
 longest on cephalic margin. Tegmina very large and strongly
 inflated; costal margin broadly convex, sutural margin showing
 broad concavity meso-distad, thence broadly convex to the rather
 strongly rounded apex; mediastine vein oblique. Prosternum
 unarmed. Cerci and subgenital plate as in dyaka, except that the
 styles are narrowly paddle-shaped. Ventral margins of femora
 armed with small spines, those of the caudal femora being more
 elongate distad, as follows. Cephalic internal 3 and 4, cephalic
 external 0, median internal 6 and 7, median external 5 and 6,
 caudal internal 13 and 14, caudal external 11 and 12. Spines on
 caudal tibiae likewise small and slender, showing no lamellation.
General coloration light green. Antennae with brown suffusions
 forming elongate, vague annuli. Tegmina in proximal area between
 anal and ulnar veins with a large opaque, buffy, circular marking,
 margined with brown and with a dot of brown in its centre; branch
 of median vein, from near its base, showing a very slender brown
 line.
Length of body 56, length of pronotum 17.6, greatest width of
 pronotal disk 16.3, length of tegmen 99.3, approximate width of
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 193
tegmen 45.5, length of tegminal stridulating field 35.3, length of
 stridulating vein 18.2, length of cephalic femur 15.6, length of
 caudal femur 29.7, height of distal spine of caudal femur 1 mm.
There is a possibility that the Bornean material, recorded as
 C. rex ( = titan) by Brunner, represents this species and that the
 maximum measurements there given for the female sex apply to
 that specimen.
The type of this huge Pseudophyllid is unique. So great is the
stridulating development that the sound which the males produce
must be almost deafening.
Onomarchis leuconotus (Serville)
1839. Pseudophyllus leuconotus Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 469.
 [d 1 , Java.]
Los Baiios, Laguna, Luzon, Phillipine Islands, (from C. F.
 Baker), 1 cf
Labuan, British North Borneo, 2 9 .
Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker).
Toungoo, Burma, (A. V. B. Crumb), 1 <?, [A. N. S. P.].
Brunner, stating that the tegminal width is subject to consider-
 able individual variation in this apparently common species,
 established three synonyms, to which Kirby has added one.
The form of the tegmina gives to the females a distinctive and
 hump-backed appearance.
The Butuan specimen shows a strikingly beautiful color form,
 in which the delicate green of the tegmina gives place in the areolae
 to extensive suffusions of lavender.
HAPALOPHTLLUM new genus
This genus is erected to include the single species described as
 Brunnea vrazi by Bolivar. This insect, it is true, runs to Brunnea
 in Brunner's key, but shows the following important differences. 56
Size medium, form moderately slender, resembling rather the
 more delicate species than those of the genus Pseudophyllus, to
 which latter Brunnea cincticollis Brunner shows a close superficial
 resemblance in size and contour. Pronotum supplied with blunt
 tubercles which are found also on the ventro-cephalic margin of
 the lateral lobes, the latter with ventral margin horizontal and
 broadly convex, the caudal margin cutting back to the deeply
56 Comparison is made with a specimen of Brunnea cinciic ollis belonging to the
 United States National Museum. That specimen will be discussed at a later
 date by Mr. Rehn.
194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
concave humeral sinus, so that the lateral lobes are slightly nar-
 rower mesad than ventrad. Tegmina more delicate, with costal
 margin more strongly convex and cross-veins of discoidal field
 decidedly oblique. Ovipositor with dorsal margin broadly sub-
 sinuate, showing very faint obliquity only in apical portion. Limb
 spination heavier, the caudal tibiae with dorso-external margin
 supplied with a few minute spines. Cephalic tibiae with auditory
 foramina conchate, very full and projecting beyond the dorsal
 plane of the limb.
Hapalophyllum vrazi (Bolivar)
1898. Brunnea vrazi Bolivar, Act. Soc. Espanola Hist. Nat., 1898, p. 141.
 [ 9, Borneo.]
This is a most delicately beautiful species and the present
 specimen appears to be even more strikingly colored than the type.
 The general coloration is cream buff, the occiput and particularly
 the disk of the pronotum washed with wax yellow, the latter with
 a very narrow line of deep vinaceous bordering the caudal margin.
 The cross-veins of the discoidal field of the tegmina are vinaceous,
 with a dot of wax yellow at the extremity of each and a buffy
 fleck margined with wax yellow proximad between the median
 and ulnar veins. The apex of the caudal femora externally, and
 base of the caudal tibiae, are lumiere green. Each of the first two
 abdominal sternites has a large triangular patch of purplish red.
Length of body 41, length of pronotum 6.3, caudal width of
 pronotal disk 18.3, length of tegmen 62.1, greatest width of tegmen
 20, length of cephalic femur 8.6, length of caudal femur 18.3, length
 of ovipositor 16, greatest width of ovipositor 3.7 mm.
Section PHYLLOMINI
Temnophyllus speciosus Brunner. Plate XVII, figure 1.
1895. Temnophyllus speciosus Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, p. 46,
 pi. II, fig. 1^. [ 9 : Malacca, [Straits Settlements]; southern Borneo.]
The tegmen of the previously unknown male of this species is
 here figured. The ultimate tergite is deeply angulato-concave
 mesad, the supra-anal plate fitting into this. That plate is broad,
 with lateral margins straight and very weakly convergent to the
 apex, which is strongly angulate-emarginate, the delicate lateral
 acute-angulate portions thus formed being curled dorsad in the
 specimen before us.
The general coloration of this individual is jade green.
Length of body 42, length of pronotum 10.8, length of tegmen
 56.8, (estimated) median width of tegmen 29, distal width of
1922] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 195
tegmen 18.8, length of tegminal stridulating field 22.3, length of
 stridulating vein 10, length of cephalic femur 13.8, length of caudal
 femur 23 mm.
Promeca unicolor B runner.
1895. Promeca unicolor Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, p. 52.
 [cf, 9 ; Kina Balu, Borneo.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 cf , 2 9 .
The median vein branches meso-distad in females, near the apex
 of the tegmina in males of this species.
The tegminal spots described by Brunner, when small, are dark
 vinaceous. When larger, these spots are seen to have white centers
 and in one female before us the more proximal are enlarged into
 opaque white blotches, rimmed with dark vinaceous.
Length of body cf 29, 9 32 and 34; length of pronotYrm cf 7,
 9 9 and 9.1; length of tegmen cf 35.8, 9 55.7 and 55.8; median
 width of tegmen cf 11, 9 14 and 13.8; length of caudal femur
 cf 16.3, 9 22.7 and 22; length of ovipositor 27.8 and 30 mm.
From the measurements of the original series, it would appear
 probable that considerable individual variation in size and tegminal
 development will be found in this insect.
Promeca quadripunctata Brunner.
1895. Promeca quadripunctata Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden.
 p. 53. [ 9 , Java.]
Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. E. Baker), 1 cf .
The previously unknown male of this species differs from males
 of Phyllomimus detersus (Walker) in the decidedly more flattened-
 convex pronotum, with surface tuberculation somewhat weaker,
 lateral lobes decidedly wider, with ventral margin very broadly
 convex, less ample tegmina in proportion to body bulk, much more
 hairy ventral surface of limbs and caudal femora which are minutely
 denticulate dorsad and have their ventro-external margins armed
 with fewer spines, which, however, become distinctly larger distad.
Compared with a female of Phyllomimus pallidus (Brunner),
 this insect is found to show convergence in the pronotal flattening,
 hairiness of the limbs and minute denticulation of the dorsal surface
 of the caudal femora. That species is easily separated by the
 immaculate pronotum, the punctulation of which is decided, lateral
 lobes with ventral margin weakly obtuse-angulate, much smaller
 male stridulating field, very much shorter cephalic femora and
 very different armament of the ventral femoral margins.
Length of body 26.5, length of pronotum 7.1, total width of
196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
pronotum 6.8, length of tegmen 33.4, median width of tegmen 8,
 length of tegminal stridulating field 9.8, length of tegminal stridu-
 lating vein 5.2, length of cephalic femur 7.6, length of caudal femur
PHYLLOMIMUS Stal.
1873. Phyllomimus Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1873, No. 4, p. 44.
 1892. Microprion Pictet and Saussure, Iconogr. Sauter. Vertes, p. 17.
The genus Phyllomimus is monotypic, granulosus ( = detersus)
 being the type. Kirby has selected elliptifolia Saussure and Pictet
 as genotype of Microprion, a species congeneric with detersus, if
 not actually a synonym of that exceedingly variable species.
Hence Microprion falls as a synonym of Phyllomimus.
Phyllomimus bakeri Karny. Plate XVII, figure 2.
1921. Phyllomimus bakeri Karny, Philippine Jour. Sci., XVTI1, p. 611.
 [ 9 ; Mount Makiling, [Luzon], Philippine Islands.]
Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (E. H. Taylor), 1 9.
 Baker), 1 9.
In one specimen there is a large black spot meso-proximad
 between the median and ulnar veins, in the other specimen traces
 only of such a spot are found. Such a spot is individually absent
 or present, but variable in size, in the series of P. detersus (Walker)
 before us. It is evident that this feature is of no specific diagnostic
 value in these species.
The ovipositor is here figured, as it is very different from that of
 detersus. Its dorsal denticulations are transversely lamellate and
 rounded.
Length of body 36.5 and 36.2, length of pronotum 7.2 and 7.7,
 length of tegmen 54 and 55.3, median width of tegmen 13.8 and
 13.3, length of caudal femur 17.1 and 21, length of ovipositor
 19.8 and 19.4, median width of ovipositor 3 and 3 mm.
The narrower tegmina with venation more regular and cross-
 veins straight, transverse, gives to individuals of this species a
 very distinctive appearance.
Phyllomimus detersus (Walker). Plate XVII, figure 3.
1869. Phyllomimus detersus Walker, Cat. Derm. Saltat. Br. Mus., II,
p. 406. [cr\ unknown locality.]
 1877. P[hijllomimus] reticulosus Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877,
No. 10, p. 45. [o 71 , 9 ; Philippine Islands.]
 1882. Microprion philippinesis Pictet and Saussure, Iconogr, Sauter. Vertes,
p. 18. [ 9 , Philippine Islands.]
 1895. Phyllomimus amplipennis Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden ,
p. 56. [ 9 , Philippine Islands.]
 1895. Phyllomimus rufatus Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, p. 56.
[ 9 ; Albany, Philippine Islands.]
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 197
To the previously established synonymy for the present species,
 (sinensis Walker, granulosus Stal and truncatifolia Pictet and
 Saussure), we add the above.
It appears that the common Philippine insect before us is the
 species recognized as detersus by Kirby, after examination of the
 type. The greatest confusion has apparently been caused by
 Brunner who, failing to recognize the variability of the species,
 considered the two Philippine species described by Stal to be valid
 and described two more. The species is exceedingly plastic, as
 the series of sixteen specimens, now before us, amply demonstrates.
Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (E. H. Taylor), 2 9.
Los Banos, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F.
 Baker), 1 d\ 3 9.
 1>,3 9.
Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 c?.
Iligan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf.
Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9 .
Davao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 2 9 .
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf .
The present insect is subject to very great individual size vari-
 ation, irrespective of geographic distribution. Stal gave 39 to 58
 mm. for length including tegmina, for this dimension the present
 series shows the following extremes; cf 34.5 to 42.5, 9 40 to 68 mm.
The tegminal venation is irregular and the branching of the
 veinlets of the scapular field (used as a specific character by
 Brunner) particularly so.
Though usually with a black spot meso-proximad between the
 median and ulnar veins of the tegmina, individuals without this
 spot occur, others showing it reduced to different degrees.
In the smallest and one of the largest females at hand, the caudal
 femora distad and caudal tibiae are purplish pink. A rather
 similar individual color variation apparently constituted one of the
 reasons for Brunner's describing rufatus.
The measurements (in millimeters^ of selected specimens from
 the series before us are as follows :
198
PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
 Iligan
 Singapore
 9
 Baguio
Mount Makiling
 Palillo Island
 Davao
 21.3
 26.7
 27
25
31.5
37.7
30.5 s7
35.5
36
 pronotum
 5
 6
6.7
 6.7
7
9.1
8.7
9.3
8.1
28.7
40.3
43
33.1
39.8
 51.2
 59
 51.7
47.2
tegmen
10.8
11.2
9.4
 10.8
 14.8
 15
 15.6
 13.S
Length Length
 of caudal of ovi-
 feinur positor
 10.7
 14.6
11.8
14
18.7
20.7
16.8
12.8
15
19.S
29.2
19.3
Phyllomimus ampullae eus (Haan)
1842. L[ocusta] {Aprion) ampullacea Haan, Verh. Natuur. Geschied.
Nederl. overzee. bezitt. Zool., p. 205. [cf , 9 : Java; Padang, [Sumatra].]
 1895. Phyllomimus palhdus Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylhden, p. 57.
[cf , 9 : Borneo; Cambodia; Palawan,] Philippine Islands].]
This species differs widely from P. deter sus (Walker). 58 The
 tegminal markings are distinctive, though very faint. In the
 present species the wings fail to reach the extremities of the tegmina
 by a very brief distance, but show, nevertheless, decided atrophy,
 quite unfitting them for even usefulness as parachutes.
The present specimen is much smaller than the female described
 by Brunner as pallidas. The species, like detersus, is probably
 subject to decided size variation. Length of body 27, length of
 pronotum 6.1, length of tegmen 40, median width of tegmen 13.2,
 length of wing 35.8, greatest width of wing 13.8, length of cephalic
 femur 6.1, length of caudal femur 13.1, length of ovipositor 13.2,
 median width of ovipositor 3 mm.
Phyllomimus tonkinae new species. Plate XVII, figure 4.
This insect appears nearest P. inquinatus Brunner, described
 from a unique female, from Penang, British Straits Settlements.
The present male differs from the description and a male of that
 species before us, in being dark green in coloration, the tegmina
 with nearly colorless areas between the veins distad, with minute
 callosities mesad in all the larger areolae, which are whitish, except
 those between the ulnar and median vein which are dark. It is a
 much heavier and decidedly less delicate insect, the male body bulk
 being much greater and the organs of flight less developed, the
 egmina narrowing more decidedly distad to the much narrower
67 The body is shrivelled in this specimen.
68 The above synonymy has recently been indicated by Karny {Zool. Mededeel.
 Rijks Mus. Nat. Hist. Leiden, V, p. 175, {1920)).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 199
apex. The very small size of the stridulating field and its strong
 and suddenly convex projection at the apex of the stridulating
 veins and the greatly reduced wings are other important features
 for separating the males of these species.
Type : cT ; Than -Moi, Tonkin. June and July. (From H. Fruh-
 storfer.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 814.]
Size small, form robust for the genus. Pronotal surface rather
 thickly supplied with minute, low tubercles, the largest on the
 cephalic margin; ventral margin of lateral lobes weakly convex,
 showing a weak angulation. Tegmina broad, greatest width of
 scapular field nearly equal to greatest width of discoidal field;
 stridulating field very small, suddenly and roundly produced at
 apex of stridulating vein; costal margin broadly convex, sutural
 margin faintly convex, apex rounded and situated at the sutural
 margin. Wings greatly reduced, about two-thirds as long as teg-
 mina, spatulate in contour, all but the anterior portion of the
 radiate field having disappeared. Supra-anal plate as long as
 broad, with free margin convex. Cerci moderately elongate,
 curving gradually inward and tapering to the minutely toothed
 apex. A large plate lies between these, bearing a minute tooth,
 directed dorsad and curved mesad, meso-proximad on each side.
 Subgenital plate of the usual Pseudophyllid type, rather short,
 with styles rather broadly spatulate. Ventral surfaces of femora
 moderately hairy, spines of cephalic and median femora mere
 tubercles, of ventro-external margins of caudal femora very small,
 in number as follows. Cephalic internal 3, cephalic external
 (but rugulose), median internal 0, median external 3 and 6, caudal
 internal and 4, caudal external 10 and 11. Ventro-external
 margins of median and caudal femora lamellate. Cephalic margin
 of metazona raised, roughened mesad, weakly tuberculate laterad.
General coloration forest green. Tubercles on cephalic margin
 of pronotum whitish green. Distal margins of abdominal tergites
 and dorsal margin of caudal femora purplish. Tegmina marked as
 described above, their ventral surfaces weakly washed with purplish
 in the more transparent areas, immediate costal margin whitish
 proximad.
Length of body 28.5, length of pronotum 6.4, length of tegmen
 30.5, greatest width of tegmen 10, length of stridulating field of
 tegmen 4.7, length of wing 21, greatest width of wing 6, length of
 cephalic femur 7.2, length of caudal femur 12.9 mm.
Phyllomimus inquinatus Brunner.
1895. Phyllomimus inquinatus Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, p.
 58. [ 9 ; [Island of] Penang, Malay Peninsula.]
Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker),
 1 d".
200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXX1V
The previously unknown male of this species in general appear-
 ance resembles much more closely males of Timanthes than those of
 the other heavier and much less delicate species of Phyllomimus.
We note the following characters of interest for this sex. Tegmina
 ample, costal margin very weakly convex and sutural margin almost
 straight from the broadly convex margin of the anal field to the distal
 extremity, where these margins curve into the very broad, transverse
 and scarcely convex distal margin. Wings extending caudad as far
 as tegmina. General coloration pale green, immaculate except for a
 few very small brown flecks, each mesad in the larger tegminal areo-
 lae. Dorsal margins of fermora lamellate and very microscopically
 serrulate. Ventral femoral margins armed with spines, which are
 very minute on the cephalic femora and almost as small on the
 median femora, as follows. Cephalic internal 2 and 3, cephalic ex-
 ternal 0, median internal 6 and 6, median external 8 and 9, caudal
 internal 12 and 15, caudal external 13 and 18 (of which about 10 to
 12 are distinct).
Phyllozelus abbotti 59 new species.
Though in many respects resembling Phyllomimus closely, the
 species of this genus may be quickly separated by the bispinose
 prosternum, acute tegmina, with branch of median vein sharply
 bent and thence parallel to the straight ulnar and median veins,
 limbs with genicular lobes bluntly triangular, caudal femora with
 ventro-external margin not lamellate but well spined and other
 less striking features.
The present insect apparently differs from the previously known
 species in having the dorsal margin of the caudal femora only
 minutely tuberculate.
From P. siccus (Walker) it differs further in the ventral margins
 of the pronotal lateral lobes, which show a weak, rounded obtuse
 angulation, while the caudal tibiae have the dorso-internal margin
 minutely serrulate. Walker's descriptions of signatus and brevi-
 usculus are too vague for any definite comparison, though they
 appear to be based on forms agreeing much more closely with siccus.
From P. genicularis Saussure and Pictet, it differs further in the
 decidedly smaller size, immaculate anal field of the tegmina, pro-
 portionately narrower tegmina, ovipositor which is shorter than
 the caudal femur, in the unarmed ventro-caudal margins of the
 cephalic femora and in the spines of the ventro-external margins
 of the caudal femora, which increase evenly in size distad.
9 Named in honor of our friend, Dr. William L. Abbott, who for years gathered
 nvaluable collections in the Malayan region.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 201
Type: 9 ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. May, 1899.
 (Dr. Wm. L. Abbott.) [U. S. National Museum.]
Size small for the genus, form robust. Vertex horizontal, sharply-
 acute, projecting very slightly beyond the antennal scrobes and
 moderately sulcate throughout. Pronotum densely beaded, with
 ventral margins of lateral lobes very weakly rounded obtuse-
 angulate (as figured for genicularis by Saussure and Pictet).
 Tegmina fully developed, with convexity of costal margin stronger
 than that of sutural margin, so that the very sharply rounded,
 acute apex is at the latter. Wings extending as far caudad as the
 tegmina, but apparently narrow. Supra-anal plate triangular,
 slightly longer than wide, with lateral margins weakly convex
 and apex sharply rounded; surface convex and sub-tectate. Ovi-
 positor shorter than caudal femur, dorsal margin almost straight,
 feebly sinuous, serrulate in meso-distal portion; ventral margin
 straight proximad, curving meso-distad to the acute apex and sub-
 serrulate distacl; lateral surface with (four and five) oblique,
 sharp, delicate distal ridges on dorsal valves and a blunt node
 below these on ventral valves. Limbs moderately pilose. Dorsal
 femoral margins lamellate and very minutely tuberculate, this very
 weak for median femora. Ventral femoral margins armed as
 follows. Cephalic internal 6 and 7, cephalic external 0, median
 internal 6 and 6, median external 3 and 4, caudal internal 9 and 9,
 caudal external 12 and 16. Dorso-internal margin of caudal tibiae
 weakly lamellate and minutely serrulate.
General coloration buckthorn brown tinged with tawny and
 quite uniform. Ovipositor deepening to tawny distad and still
 darker at apex.
Length of body 30, length of pronotum 7, length of tegmen 46.2,
 greatest tegminal width 12.3, length of cephalic femur 7.7, length
 of caudal femur 13.8, length of ovipositor 13.2 mm.
Gonyatopus gemmiculus new species. Plate XVII, figures 5, 6 and 7.
This delicate and beautiful little insect does not have the external
 genicular lobes of the cephalic femora compressed and horizontally
 produced, but in all other respects agrees so closely with the de-
 scription of Gonyatopus that we do not feel justified in erecting a
 new genus to include it.
The mesosternum in this species, however, does not have the
 margins simple, as might be inferred from Brunner's generic de-
 scription, while the form and coloration of the cephalic coxal spine
 is a most remarkable feature in gemmiculus, not mentioned
 elsewhere for other of the species.
The species is apparently nearest the Philippine (?. integer
202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
(Stal), from which it differs in the somewhat larger size and in
striking features of coloration. 60
Type: d 1 ; Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 815.]
Size small, form slender, structure very delicate. Head smooth,
 vertex acute, produced very slightly beyond margins of antenna!
 scrobes, dorsal surface concave. Antennal scrobes produced
 ventrad in a bluntly conical projection. Pronotum with minute,
 scattered tubercles on disk and dorsal portions of lateral lobes;
 disk flattened, defined from the lateral lobes faintly by contour
 but strongly by coloration, with a subobsolete medio-longitudinal
 sulcus and two decided transverse sulci, caudal margin broadly
 convex; lateral lobes with cephalic and ventral margins straight and
 tuberculate and forming an obtuse-angulation. Tegmina and
 wings fully developed and capable of sustained flight. Tegmina
 with costal margin broadly convex, sutural margin weakly convex
 in stridulating field, thence nearly straight to distal extremity,
 where it curves into the broadly rounded apex; scapular field broken
 into irregular areolae; anal field very small; discoidal and median
 veins gradually diverging in distal two-fifths, median vein branching
 at end of proximal two-thirds, the branch forming an acute angle
 and curving proximad so that it thence runs parallel to the ulnar
 vein. Cephalic coxal spine lamellate, with ventral margin convex,
 so that it is half as wide as long. Mesosternum narrower than
 metasternum, cephalic and lateral margins weakly concave, these
 margins produced, convex latero-cephalic angles minutely tuber-
 culate, the cephalic margin subtuberculate to near median portion.
 Ultimate tergite surrounded by preceding segment so that its
 dorsal portion is alone visible, with caudal margin concave. Supra-
 anal plate ovate, with greatest breadth distad and apical portion
 moderately truncate. Cerci small, stout conical, straight, tapering
 to apical portion which is folded inward at a right -angle to the
 shaft and terminates in a minute spine which does not extend inward
 so far as the inner margin of the shaft. Subgenital plate with
 lateral margins concave, narrowing to distal portion, then widening
 slightly to the truncate apex. Styles conical in proximal half,
 filiform in distal half. Dorsal femoral margins moderately lamel-
 late and smooth. Ventro-external femoral margins and dorso-
 internal margin of caudal tibiae lamellate and armed with minute,
 procumbent spinulae, except distad on caudal femora where (7
 and 8) small, erect spines occur. The count for these limbs as
 follows. Cephalic internal 14 and 14, cephalic external 15 and 15,
 median internal 8 and 8, median external 17 and 20, caudal internal
 2 and 3 (subobsolete), caudal external 28 and 31. Genicular lobes
 of femora bluntly rounded. Mesosternum narrower than meta-
60 As well as in the male genitalia, if these have been correctly described for
 integer by Brunner.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 203
sternum, cephalic and lateral margins weakly concave, lateral
 margins and all of produced and convex latero-cephalic angles
 minutely tuberculate, the cephalic margin subtuberculate to near
 its median portion.
General coloration chamois. Antennae with short, widely
 spaced, black annuli. Disk of pronotum cinnamon, deepening
 laterad, and caudal margin bister, margined laterad with buff
 yellow. Cephalic coxal spine white, with a round ventro-mesal
 spot of black. Tegmina greenish chamois, the areolae with
 mottled suffusions of light cendre green, which become very incon-
 spicuous and olivaceous in shade in distal portions. All tibiae
 distad with a brown fleck on dorsal surface. Third joint of tarsi
 with lateral lobes embrowned.
Length of body 18.3, length of pronotum 3.7, length of tegmen
 27, greatest tegminal width 7.8, length of cephalic femur 5.8,
 length of caudal femur 10.3 mm.
The type of this distinctive insect is unique.
Aprion 61 atroterminatus (Brunner)
1895. Tympanoptera atroterminata Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden,
 p. 67, pi. Ill, figs. 26b and 26c. [cf, 9; Kina Balu, [British North]
 Borneo.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 cf , 1 9 .
The general coloration of this remarkable species is a very light
 milky green. The male before us is immaculate, except that the
 tegmina have a black spot in the second areola of the anal field
 beyond the enormous stridulating area, toward the anal vein, and
 the subgenital plate is shining black with styles, however, pale.
The female here recorded is marked with hay's russet, as figured
 by Brunner, the markings of the tegmina being, however, less
 heavy.
Length of body <? 33.7, 9 37.5; length of pronotum c? 6.3.
 9 6.4; length of tegmen cf 54, 9 61.3; length of stridulating field
 of male tegmen 27; greatest (distal) width of stridulating field of
 male tegmen 19; greatest width of tegmen c? 25, 9 20; length of
 cephalic femur c? 12.5, 9 14; length of caudal femur cf 23, 9 24.6;
 length of ovipositor 16.5 mm.
Despoina superba Brunner.
1895. Despoina superba Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, p. 68,
 . pi. Ill, figs. 27a and 27b. [cf , 9 ; Brunei, Borneo.]
In the specimen before us of this wonderful species, the markings
61 It should be remembered that, in the literature, the name Aprion has been
 very generally incorrectly used for the genus which should be recognized as
 Morsimus. See notes on generic confusion, page 188.
204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
are as figured by Brunner, except that all are more delicate. The
 median and caudal limbs are suffused with old rose. The re-
 markable coloration of the costal margin of the tegmina has been
 inadequately described. The margin itself is tawny, then comes a
 narrow band of white, interrupted by frequent slate-colored flecks,
 followed by a narrow band of ochraceous-tawny.
Length of body 30, length of pronotum 5.9, length of tegmen
 49.5, length of stridulating field of male tegmen 21.4, greatest
 width of tegmen 12.6, length of cephalic femur 9. length of caudal
 femur 18.3 mm.
Despoina spinosa Brunner.
1895. Despoina spinosa Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden, p. 69,
 pi. Ill, fig. 27c. [cf, 9 ; Kina Balu, [British North] Borneo.]
This astonishing insect represents the most specialized develop-
 ment yet known in the section of the Pseudophyllinae including
 pale green or brown species which have smooth tegmina. In the
 females at hand the pronotum is armed with a pair of large spines
 on each side of the cephalic margin of the disk, of which the lateral
 are very large, two large spines on each side of the mesozona,
 situated on the lateral margins of the disk and eight spines on its
 caudal margin, which grade from the two smallest mesad to the
 two largest laterad; the lateral lobes have the ventral margin armed
 with (3 to 5) large spines.
Length of body 38 and 36, length of pronotum 6.8 and 6.8,
 height of longest pronotal spine 2.1 and 2.1, length of tegmen 47
 and 47, greatest tegminal width 18.7 and 18.8, length of cephalic
 femur 13.4, length of caudal femur 22.3 and 22.6, length of ovi-
 positor 16 mm.
 Tympanoptera grioleti Pictet and Saussure.
1892. T[ympanoptera] grioleti Pictet and Saussure, Iconogr. Sauter Vertes,
 p. 20, pi. Ill, figs. 15, a to c. [ 9 . Molucca Islands.]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 3 9 .
The delicate and uniform coloration (except that the costal
 margin of the tegmina is narrowly yellowish and the antennae
 distad are delicately and finely annulate) and evenness of tegminal
 venation give to this insect an exceptionally neat appearance. A
 comparison of this genus with Togona will be found under T. philip-
 pina, here described.
Length of body 33.5 to 36.5, length of pronotum 5.5 to 5.9.
 length of tegmen 49 to 50.5, greatest width of tegmen 14.7 to 15.8,
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 205
length of caudal femur 15 and 16, length of ovipositor 17 to 19.2 mm.
Togona philippina new species. Plate XV, figure 4.
Closely related to the Formosan T. unicolor 62 Matsumura and
 Shiraki, 63 the present females may be distinguished by their slightly
 smaller size, much smaller pronotum, longer tegmina, shorter
 ovipositor and the lamellate and much more abundantly spinose
 ventro-external margins of the median and caudal femora.
This genus is clearly very near Tympanoptera, differing in the
 subobsolete medio-longitudinal sulcation of the pronotum, narrower
 ovipositor which is evenly though weakly curved upward, shorter
 tegmina with veins not minutely tuberculate proximad, median
 vein forking slightly beyond end of proximal fourth, greater distal
 divergence of discoidal and median veins and sinuous ulnar and
 branch of the median vein.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 818.]
Size small, form moderately slender, structure delicate. Vertex
 acute, projecting very slightly beyond antennal scrobes, dorsal
 surface concave to near apex. Pronotum weakly tuberculate
 with a weak medio-longitudinal line defined by lateral carinulae
 which are mainly indicated by tubercles, with two transverse sulci
 which are not interrupted mesad; caudal margin of disk convex,
 humeral sinus obtuse-angulate but distinct, other margins weakly
 tuberculate; lateral lobes higher than wide, ventro-cephalic angle
 rounded rectangulate, ventral margin very weakly convex, ventro-
 caudal angle sharply rectangulate. Tegmina and wings fully
 developed and capable of sustained flight. Tegmina with costal
 margin broadly convex, sutural margin almost straight to the
 rather sharply rounded apex at its distal extremity; veins of dis-
 coidal field parallel in greater part, though the ulnar and branch
 of the median vein are sinuous, median vein branching slightly
 before end of proximal fourth and diverging from discoidal vein in
 distal third; majority of cross- veinlets of discoidal field transverse
 and straight, those of scapular field irregularly branching and
 moderately oblique. Supra-anal plate linguliform, medio-longi-
 tudinally carinate. Ovipositor not heavy for group, curving
6? Karny has recorded a male from Los Bailos, Luzon, Philippine Islands, as
 unicolor, having compared it with Formosan males of that species. That in-
 dividual almost certainly represents the present insect and it is probable that
 the differences in limb structure were not noted (Philippine Jour. Set., XVIII,
 p. 610, {1921).)
63 The figure originally given of unicolor does not show the acute-angulate
 branching of the median vein, nor the gradual distal divergence of the discoidal
 and median veins of the tegmina, found in the material here treated. This is
 probably attributable to faulty drawing.
206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
gently dorsad to its acute apex, the margins serrulate in distal
 half. Subgenital plate delicate, triangular, with apex bluntly
 bilobate. Ventro-external margins of median and caudal femora
 lamellate. Ventral femoral margins armed with the following
 number of procumbent spinulae. Cephalic internal 10 and 11,
 cephalic external 11 to 13, median internal 11 and 11, median
 external 15 to 18, caudal internal 16 to 17, caudal external 25 to 30.
 Caudal tibiae with four margins supplied with very small spines,
 the dorso-external margin weakly lamellate.
General coloration immaculate light greenish yellow, apparently
 faded to yellowish on body, probably pale green in life. Antennae
 delicately and finely annulate distad.
Length of body 27 and 25, length of pronotum 4.3 and 4.3, caudal
 width of pronotum 3 and 3, length of tegmen 37.8 and 36.4, greatest
 width of tegmen 11.9 and 11.7, length of cephalic femur 5.9 and
 5.9, length of caudal femur 12.3 and 13.1, length of ovipositor
 10.3 and 11.5 mm.
In addition to the type, a single paratypic female, from Los Bafios,
 Luzon, Philippine Islands, is before us.
Morsimus albomarginatus new species. Plate XV, figure 5; plate XVII, figures 8, 9,
 10 and 11.
Apparently nearest M. inversus (Brunner), the present insect
 differs; in proportions, in the non-carinate vertex, the immaculate
 head and pronotum, weak proximal curvature of the branch of the
 median vein of the tegmina, which forms an acute angle with that
 vein, anal field of tegmina, which lacks a spurious longitudinal vein
 and proportionately much smaller ovipositor.
 Type no. 816.
Size large for the genus, form medium, structure very delicate.
 Head smooth; vertex acute with dorsal surface faintly convex
 proximad, thence weakly concave to near apex. Distal margin
 at first antennal joint with a sharp tubercle ventrad and a smaller
 rounded tubercle dorsad. Pronotum moderately well supplied
 with very minute tubercles ; disk rounding evenly into lateral lobes,
 with a very weakly indicated rounded medio-longitudinal carina
 and two distinct transverse sulci, flattened in caudal portion;
 lateral lobes with ventro-cephalic marginal portion thickened,
 tuberculate and broadly convex to slightly beyond median portion
 on ventral margin, ventro-caudal angle strongly convex at slightly
 more than ninety degrees. Tegmina and wings fully developed.
 Tegmina with costal margin broadly, though more strongly than
 usual, convex to the sharply rounded apex at sutural margin,
 which margin is straight except in the weakly convex proximal
 portion; veinlets of marginal and scapular fields pale, forking distad,
 oblique; discoidal and median veins scarcely diverging in distal
1922] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 207
portion; median vein branching at end of proximal third, this
 branch forming an acute angle and curving gently to run parallel
 to median, ulnar and anal veins; these veins connected by six con-
 spicuous (and distad one or more inconspicuous), straight, oblique,
 pale cross-veins, which are directed proximad toward the sutural
 margin, so that they are approximately parallel to the pale veinlets
 of the scapular field. Supra-anal plate apparently slightly longer
 than wide (partially pulled inward in this specimen), triangular,
 with lateral margins convex and medio-longitudinally carinate.
 Ovipositor moderately heavy; dorsal margin nearly straight, weakly
 convex proximad, thence weakly concave and very finely serrulate ;
 ventral margin broadly convex meso-distad to the acute apex, with
 distal margin very finely serrulate; dorsal valves disto-laterad with
 five weakly oblique, sharp but delicate, transverse ridges. Sub-
 genital plate very small, delicate, truncate trigonal. Ventro-
 external margins of median and caudal femora weakly lamellate.
 Ventral femoral margins armed with the following compound 64
 spinulae, 65 which are produced though very small only distad on
 the external margins of the caudal femora. Cephalic internal 5
 and 6, cephalic external and 3, median internal and 4, median
 external 7 and 9, caudal internal 6 and 6, caudal external 14 and
 15. Caudal tibiae with dorso-internal margin armed with a series
 of closely placed, minute, compound spinulae and becoming
 moderately lamellate distad.
Allotype : c? ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with the female, except as follows. Size very
 much smaller. Pronotum more strongly tuberculate. Tegmina
 slightly less acute at apex; stridulating field small, oblique vein-
 and veinlets less contrastingly paler. Genitalia crushed, the sub-
 genital plate is seen to be very slenderly produced, with paddles
 shaped cerci. Spinulae of limbs even more compounded; those of
 the ventral femoral margins numbering as follows. Cephalic in-
 ternal 3 and 4, cephalic external 7 and 7, median internal 1 and 5,
 median external 9 and 11, caudal internal 7 and 7, caudal ex-
 ternal 16 and 16.
General coloration cream color. Head with occiput laterad
 washed with olive buff. Antennae cream color with a faint greenish
 tinge. Pronotum ochraceous-buff dorsad, shading to olive buff
64 See plate XVII, figures 9, 10 and 11. This remarkable type of femoral
 spination is developed in the species of this and a number of other Pseudophylhd
 genera, which follow in linear arrangement.
66 The number of such spines is evidently so variable that probably little of
 specific diagnostic value will be found. The actual number of femoral spines is
 probably very rarely constant in any species of the Tettigoniidae, though the
 average for a species, when sufficient material is available to determine it, will
 probably often be found to differ from that for related species. It is for this
 reason that we have given the exact spine count, in the present paper, for the
 new species described; as an aid in beginning to find the averages for these species,
 but certainly not to distinguish them from their allies on the basis of the exact
 number of spines present.
208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
on lateral lobes and with caudal portion of disk light grape green,
 ventral margins of lateral lobes rather broadly cream color. Teg-
 mina grape green, this weakening in areolae and heaviest toward
 the pale oblique transverse veins of the discoidal field and pale
 oblique veinlets of the scapular fields, the entire costal margin
 cream color, this rather broad proximad. Limbs buffy with a
 greenish tinge, the tarsi somewhat embrowned. Ovipositor
 ochraceous-buff, with distal portion blackish brown. In the
 allotype the transverse veins and veinlets are less contrastingly
 paler and, as a result, the distinctive coloration of this insect is
 seen to be far less pronounced in the male sex.
Length of body cf 18.7, 9 33; length of pronotum cf 4.3 ; 9 5.5;
caudal width of pronotum cf 2.9, 9 4.3; length of tegmen c? 30,
9 50.5; greatest width of tegmen d" 8, 9 17.1; length of cephalic
femur d* 1 5, 9 5.3; length of caudal femur d" 10.3, 9 14; length of
ovipositor 14.8 mm.
Morsimus serraticollis Bolivar.
1890. Morsimus serraticollis Bolivar, Anal, Soc. Espanola Hist. Nat. ,
 XIX, p. 325. [ 9 ; [Island of] Waigiou, [Melanesia].]
 New Guinea, (from A. S. Meek), 1 9 .
The pronotum in this specimen is not densely granulose, as later
 described by Brunner. The median carina is decided and irregu-
 larly tuberculate, the tubercles in places forming two irregular
 adjacent lines; 66 the other portions with scattered, minute tubercles,
 except the ventral margins of the lateral lobes, which are more
 strongly tuberculate.
The presence of a longitudinal spurious vein, running througn
the narrow anal field to near the tegminal apex, combined with
other striking characters, will probably oblige separation of this
species from Morsimus, when the forms here assigned are better
known.
CHONDRODERELLA new genus
The present genus is erected to include the new species, C. sex-
 guttaia and very probably rubromarginata (Haan), of which it is
 likely that borneensis (Brunner) is, at least in part, a synonym.
Genotype.  Chondroderella sexguttata new species.
Agreeing very closely in all other features with Chondrodera
 Karsch, this genus may be separated by the following characters.
 Tegmina with anal field lacking a spurious vein; discoidal and
66 This shows some slight divergence toward the genus Chondrodera.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 209
median veins adjacent to near apex, where the former runs suddenly
 off as one of the veinlets to the costal margin. Cephalic tibiae
 with auditory foramen internally flattened conchate, externally
 inflated conchate. Cephalic coxal spine thickened, but not lamel-
 late as in that genus. Limbs, particularly the cephalic, strongly
 hirsute; spinulae of the same compound character as found in
 Morsimus.
Chondroderella sexguttata new species. Plate XV, figure 6.
This species, compared with the brief original description of the
 Bornean C. rubromarginata (Haan) is seen to be very closely related,
 differing only in the small but very distinctive tegminal markings.
Type: <?; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 817.]
In addition to the features given in the generic description, we
 note the following:
Size small, form rather slender, structure very delicate. Vertex
 acute, feebly concave mesad, extending slightly beyond margins
 of antennal scrobes and there slightly reflexed to the sharply
 rounded apex. Pronotum with two medio-longitudinal rows of
 slender but prominent tubercles, separated by a short interval;
 margins tuberculate, the surface elsewhere very faintly subtuber-
 culate; three transverse sulci present, of which the median alone is
 deep and alone cuts the median line of the pronotum, this occurring
 mesad. Tegmina and wings fully developed and capable of sus-
 tained flight. Tegmina very broad, anal field small, its free margin
 concave before and convex at the stridulating vein; thence the
 sutural margin is straight, distad curving to the rather broadly
 rounded apex, the costal margin convex, decidedly so proximad;
 anal field beyond stridulating area thickly filled with minute,
 irregular veinlets; median vein branching mesad, connecting veins
 of discoidal field in most cases perfectly transverse; transverse
 veins of scapular field not numerous, weakly oblique, the more
 proximal forking irregularly. Supra-anal plate nearly twice as
 long as wide, lateral margins weakly convergent, rounding distad
 into the truncate apex. Cerci simple, cylindrical, moderately
 elongate, tapering weakly to the rounded apex, which is armed with
 a minute tooth directed inward. Subgenital plate narrowed
 suddenly mesad, the distal half very slender, expanding very
 slightly distad and bearing very delicate, paddle-shaped styles.
 Ventral femoral margins armed with minute compound spines,
 except externally on the caudal femora, where the more distal
 spines, though small, are considerably larger. Cephalic internal
 2 and 5, cephalic external and 1, median internal 1 and 4, median
 external 5 and 6, caudal internal 8, caudal external 10.
General coloration warm buff tinged with light green. Antennae
210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
unicolorous to distal portions, which are warm buff, feebly annulate
 with brown. Tegmina transparent pale yellow green, becoming
 colorless distad and toward the costal margin; brief proximal
 portion of marginal field with close network of veinlets hydrangea
 red, the minute intervals black, but with three circular white
 spots, each narrowly margined with black, the median largest,
 the first very small, but all conspicuous; areolae of scapular and
 discoidal fields each with a very minute black fleck mesad, the
 veinlets about these flecks so delicately marked with black that
 this can scarcely be noticed by the naked eye.
Length of body 22, length of pronotum 3.7, caudal width of
 proriotal disk 3.2, length of tegmen 29.3, greatest tegminal width
 11.4, length of cephalic femur 5.7, length of caudal femur 10.8 mm.
The type of this handsome little insect is unique.
Section CYMATOMERAE
 Sathrophyllia torrida Stal.
1874. S[athrophyllia] torrida Stal, Recensio Orth., II, p. 71. [9, unknown
 locality.]
Toungoo, Burma, (A. V. B. Crumb), 1^,1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
The species of this genus apparently all show decided individual
 variation, the projections of the pronotum, tegmina and limbs
 being irregular and the irregular, mottled markings, resembling
 bark, also differing in shade and distribution in each individual.
The present specimens differ from the individual, here recorded
 as S. marmorata Stal, only in having the elevation of the pronotal
 disk very slight in its caudal portion and the meso-distal convexity
 of the dorsal surface of the cephalic tibiae much weaker.
Additional material may prove synonymy, but we believe that
 Brunner did not possess sufficient material to justify his action
 of placing this name under S. rugosa (Linnaeus). Comparison of
 the present specimens with material of that species before us, from
 India and Ceylon, shows marked differentiation in the strongly
 swollen basal portion of the occiput, much more decided tegminal
 shoulders at the base of the ulnar vein (resembling those developed
 in some Phasmids), deeper general coloration and specialized
 cephalic tibiae.
The size and relative proportions appear to offer no specific
 diagnostic features whatever.
Sathrophyllia marmorata Stal.
1874. S [athrophyllia] ?narmorata Stal, Recensio Orth., II, p. 71. [9, un-
 known locality.]
Shwegoo, Burma, June 12, 1885, (L. Fea), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 67
 67 From H. de Saussure, determined by that author as rugosa.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 211
The present individual is compared with specimens of S. torrida
 Stal under that species. It differs similarly from S. rugosa (Lin-
 naeus), except that the elevation of the pronotal disk is fully as
 prominent in its caudal portion.
Olcinia erosifolia Stal. Plate XVII, figure 12.
1877. 0[lcinia] erosifolia Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877, No. 10,
 p. 45. [ 9 , Philippine Islands.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 d 1 .
The pale face, truncate tegmina and black spines of the cephalic
 femora distinguish this insect. In the present specimen the head
 and thorax ventrad, limbs and even the first antennal joints are
 thickly supplied with long silky hairs, which are strikingly evident.
 The general coloration is grayish brown, the tegmina irregularly
 mottled with pale greenish and rusty brown. The costal margin
 of the sinistral tegmen has three, that of the dextral tegmen six,
 moderately large, rounded triangular projections.
The previously unknown male has the supra-anal plate small,
 produced and shield-shaped. The cercus is nearly semicircular,
 with apex minutely toothed. The subgenital plate is broad and
 shining black proximad with a broad subchitinous pale medio-
 longitudinal sulcus, then suddenly narrowed, the slender distal
 portion pale, short, with apex briefly forked and bearing moderately
 heavy styles, which curve inward distad.
Length of body (squeezed out) 32, length of pronotum 5.8,
 caudal width of pronotum 5, length of tegmen 32.4, greatest teg-
 minal width 13.2, length of wing 33.4, length of cephalic femur
 5.8, length of caudal femur 14.3 mm.
Sanaa imperialis (White)
1846. Locusta (Acanthodis) imperialis White, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., XVIII,
 pi. I, fig. 1. [ 9 ; Silhet, [Assam].]
Assam, 1 9 .
The bold black and tan markings of this large insect are very
 distinctive.
Length of body 46, length of pronotum 10.8, length of tegmen 53,
 greatest tegminal width 18.1, length of cephalic femur 10.2, length
 of caudal femur 23.3, length of ovipositor 23.2 mm.
Typhoptera staudingeri (Brunner)
1895. Capnoptera staudingeri Brunner, Monogr. der Pseudophylliden,
 p. 97, pi. IV, fig. 40. [<?, 9 ; Kina Balu, [British North] Borneo.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 o 71 .
The tegmina are bister, beautifully spotted and dotted with
212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
light blue-green. Brunner does not mention the antennae, which
 in the specimen before us are blackish, with a broad buffy annulus,
 occupying six joints, above the bases of the caudal femora.
Length of body (squeezed out) 29.4, length of pronotum 4.5,
 length of tegmen 35.7, greatest tegminal width 9.1, length of
 cephalic femur 10, length of caudal femur 16, length of style 6.7 mm.
Section PANTECPHYLI
Callimenellus fumidus Walker.
1871. Callimenellus fumidus Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., V
 Suppl. p. 25. [cf, 9; China.}
Than-Mio, Tonkin, June and July, (from H. Fruhstorfer,) 1 cf ,
Brunner's ferrugineus is probably, at least in part, a synonym of
Length of body cf 29, 9 (squeezed out) 46.5; length of pro-
 notum cf 7.2, 9 8.8; length of tegmina cf (apices chewed off),
 49 11.8; width of tegmen cf 7.9, 9 7; length of stridulating field
 of male tegmen 5.4; width of stridulating field of male tegmen 5;
 length of cephalic femur cf 7.8, 9 9.8; length of caudal femur
 cf 13.7, 9 20; length of ovipositor 18.6 mm.
AGRAECIINAE
 EPPIOIDES 68 new genus.
The present genus has no close relatives. The truncate conical
 vertex suggests that of Oxylakis, but is sulcate dorsad only at its
 apex. The pronotum, with disk flattened, in shape somewhat
 suggests the Listroscelid genus Hexacentrus; its lateral lobes much
 deeper but otherwise agreeing with those of Oxylakis. The teg-
 mina widen gradually distad, as in the Listroscelid genus Para-
 hexacentrus and are strikingly truncate, though no. to as great a
 degree as in Eppla. The armament of the limbs in some respects
 resembles that of Oxylakis truncatipennis Bolivar. 69 The armament
 of the mesosternum and metasternum is nearest that of Oxystethus.
 The ovipositor shows a striking development, not known to us in
 any other genus of the Tettigoniidae.
In spite of all these differences, the present species runs to
68 In allusion to the very superficial resemblance, which the truncate tegmina
 give individuals of this genus, to the tropical American Eppia truncatipennis Stal.
69 A species which we believe should be removed from that genus.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 213
Oxijstethus in Karny's key, 70 except that the pronotum is not as
 decidedly truncate caudad.
Genotype.  Eppioides malaya new species.
Head with fastigium of vertex small, the dorsal surface weakly
 sulcate only at the comparatively broadly rounded, truncate, apex;
 its cephalic surface, in the same plane and connecting with the
 facial fastigium. Face and genae smooth and shining. Pronotum
 broadening caudad and shining, not rugose; its disk flattened,
 broadened caudad and sharply defined from the lateral lobes in
 color; lateral lobes vertical, decidedly deeper than any except dorsal
 width, ventral portion of caudal margin as strongly convex as the
 decided humeral sinus is concave. Tegmina and wings fully
 developed. Tegmina with anal field flattened and sharply de-
 limited; broadening gradually to the strongly truncate apex.
 Prosternum unarmed. Mesosternum with latero-caudal angles
 strongly produced ventrad in acute-angulate, lamellate spikes.
 Metasternum similarly but not as strongly specialized and with a
 node also at latero-caudal angles of proximal section. Ovipositor
 short and moderately heavy, slightly upcurved and tapering to
 the acute apex, the dorsal valves with margin smooth, but with a
 distal serrate ridge laterad, ventral valves with a similar but
 longer serrate ridge and with ventral margin coarsely but weakly
 serrate distad. Limbs short, but proportionately not as short
 nor as thick as in Oxylakis. Cephalic coxae spined. Femora
 with genicular lobes rounded, except the caudal internal which are
 unispinose; ventral margins armed with heavy spines, between
 which there are no smaller spines. Cephalic tibiae with auditory
 foramina rimate.
Eppioides malaya new species. Plate XVII, figures 13 and 14.
We have discussed above the appearance of this distinctive and,
 in many respects, anomalous genus. The present species is very
 closely related to E. bicolor, here described.
Type: 9 : Labuan, British North Borneo. [Hebard Collection..
 Type no. 833.]
In addition to the characters given in the generic diagnosis, the
following appear noteworthy:
Size medium, form rather slender for the group. Eyes small and
 protuberant. Pronotum with a single distinct, though linear,
 transverse sulcus on disk; ventro-cephalic angle of lateral lobes
 strongly obtuse-angulate and showing a minute angular production,
 ventro-caudal portion rounding evenly into the straight, oblique
 ventral margin. Tegmina extending beyond caudal femora a dis-
 tance nearly equal to their length to that point, the distal margin
 faintly concave, truncate. Ovipositor showing a faint obliquity
70 Gen. Ins., Orth., Locustidae, Agraeciinae, Fasc. 141, p. 4, (1912.).
214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
of the dorsal margin distad. Subgenital plate short, truncate;
 lateral margins rounding distad to the very broadly and weakly
 concave caudal margin. Femora with ventral margins armed as
 follows. Cephalic internal 3 and 3, cephalic external 0, median
 internal 1 and 2 (very small spines), median external 4 and 4,
 caudal internal 3 and 5, caudal external 6 and 8.
General coloration cinnamon-rufous, faintly mottled. Head
 with median ocellus buffy. Antennae of the general coloration,
 with alternating segments tipped with prouts brown. Dorsal
 surface of vertex, occiput, pronotum and anal field of tegmina solidly
 russet, very narrowly bordered laterad with buffy. Tegmina in
 other portions transparent cinnamon-rufous, paling somewhat
 distad with occasional areolae of discoidal field toward the median
 vein slightly darker than the others. Limbs cinnamon-rufous with
 flecks of buffy to median portions of femora, remaining portions
 washed with buckthorn brown and flecked with prouts brown.
 Ovipositor ochraceous-tawny, becoming chestnut brown distad.
Length of body 24.3, length of pronotum 6.1, cephalic width of
 pronotal disk 2.2, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.1, depth of lateral
 lobes of pronotum 4.7, median width of lateral lobes of pronotum
 3.7, length of tegmen 35, median width of tegmen 6.3, greatest
 (distal) width of tegmen 7.8, length of cephalic femur 5.8, length
 of caudal femur 13.9, length of ovipositor 9.5 mm.
Eppioides bicolor new species. Plate XVII, figures 15, 16 and 17.
Very closely related to E. malaya here described, the present
 insect, also kn^wn from a single female, may be distinguished by
 pronotal differences, the longer and narrower tegmina and very
 slightly longer limbs and ovipositor.
We believe that males of these species will show further differ-
 ences of decided specific value.
Type: 9 ; Jelabu, British Straits Settlements. [Hebard Col-
 lection, Type no. 834.]
Agrees with the generic description and very closely in all
 respects, except the following, with the description of malaya.
 Pronotum distinctly more elongate; lateral lobes with ventro-
 cephalic angle without a projecting apical angulation, caudal margin
 with ventral portion more convex, this convexity terminating sud-
 dently at the straight, oblique ventral margin. Tegmina more
 elongate but distinctly narrower distad, with distal margin straight,
 truncate. Ventral femoral margins probably very similarly armed
 in these species, except that no minute spines are present on the
 internal margins of the median femora in bicolor; the number as
 follows. Cephalic internal 2 and 3, cephalic external 0, median
 internal 0, median external 3 and 3, caudal internal 3 and 4, caudal
 external 6 and 7.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 215
Coloration very similar to that of malaya, except that the shade
 is different and the dark dorsal portions are in much stronger
 contrast. General coloration buckthorn brown, faintly mottled.
 Dorsal surface of vertex, occiput, pronotum and anal field of teg-
 mina contrastingly and solidly warm sepia, narrowly bordered
 laterad with buffy, though more broadly so than in malaya.
 Other markings as in that species except that the tegmina have
 more numerous clouded areolae, with a few flecks of darker brown,
 particularly along the sutural margin.
Length of body 23.5, length of pronotum 6.8, cephalic width of
 pronotal disk 2.2, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.2, depth of
 lateral lobes of pronotum 4.8, median width of lateral lobes of
 pronotum 4.1, length of tegmen 36.3, median width of tegmen 6.5,
 greatest (distal) width of tegmen 7.6, length of cephalic femur
 6.2, length of caudal femur 15, length of ovipositor 10.1 mm.
Oxystethus dyaka new species. Plate XVII, figure 18.
Related to the Bornean 0. geniculatus Bolivar, the present
 female is distinguishable from the single male known of that species
 by its more simple coloration with less developed color pattern,
 particularly of the head and pronotum, and the tegmina and wings
 which, though fully developed, are decidedly shorter in proportion
 to the body bulk.
The general appearance of the present insect strongly suggests
 that of certain species of the Neotropical genus Agraecia.
Type: 9 ; Sandakan, British North Borneo. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 835.]
Size medium for the genus; form rather slender, much more
 slender than in some of the species. Vertex slenderly produced in
 a conical fastigium which is scarcely longer than the first antennal
 joint, moderately ascendant to its sharply rounded apex. An-
 tennae extremely elongate. Face thickly and heavily impresso-
 punctate, this weaker on the genae. Pronotum elongate, surface
 thickly and heavily impresso-punctate; dorsum rounded into
 lateral lobes but with a few, small, smooth, impressed areas on
 each side, shoulders indicated only latero-caudad and weakly
 rounded; caudal margin of disk transverse, faintly sinuate and
 subemarginate; transverse sulci indicated only dorsad on lateral
 lobes, the latter decidedly longer than deep, with ventro-caudal
 portion strongly and roundly produced ventro-caudad, so that the
 ventral margin is broadly obtuse-angulate emarginate and declivent
 to that portion, humeral sinus decided. Tegmina and wings fully
 developed, extending slightly beyond apex of ovipositor. Tegmina
 narrow, straight, tapering very slightly to the evenly rounded apex;
 median vein branching mesad, this branch having two and three
 short, oblique distal branches. Mesosternum with a long, slender
216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
spine latero-caudad on each side. Metasternum with a shorter
 but decided spine latero-caudad on each side of proximal section
 and terminating caudad in two bluntly rounded projections of
 equal length. Ovipositor elongate and slender, unarmed, of the
 usual Copiphorine type developed in this genus, widening slightly
 beyond its base, then narrowing as weakly to the moderately
 acute apex, so that it is widest mesad. Subgenital plate distorted,
 apparently decidedly produced and strongly concave at apex,
 fitting tightly about the ventral portion of the ovipositor base.
 Femoral genicular lobes developed as follows; cephalic internal and
 median internal strongly acute-angulate produced, cephalic ex-
 ternal rounded, median external bluntly triangular, caudal internal
 and external heavily unispinose. Cephalic and median femora
 thickened, the ventral femoral margins armed with large spines,
 between which are minute spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 3
 and 3 large, 8 and 9 small; cephalic external large, 2 and 2 small;
 median internal 0, median external 4 and 4 large, 9 and 9 small;
 caudal internal 0; caudal external 5 large, 7 small.
General coloration clay color; face evenly suffused with tawny;
 dorsal surface of vertex, occiput, pronotum mesad and tegmina
 proximad, evenly suffused with mars brown. Antennae ochra-
 ceous-tawny, proximad with intersections of joints slightly darker,
 mars brown; distad uniform cinnamon-brown. Tegmina clay color
 with veinlets paler, with very numerous small flecks of blackish
 chestnut brown which are more numerous in half toward costal
 margin. Limbs and ovipositor clear ochraceous tawny; the former
 with femora briefly shining blackish brown distad, this weak on
 cephalic femora, strong and sharply defined on the others; the
 tibiae with a similar but very much more limited and inconspicuous
 marking proximad and distad, the cephalic tibiae suffused with
 that color very briefly dorsad at end of auditory foraminal area.
Length of body 31.5, length of pronotum 7.8, caudal width of
 pronotal disk 3.7, median depth of lateral lobe of pronotum 3.9,
 median length of lateral lobe of pronotum 6.1, length of tegmen
 36.7, greatest width of tegmen 5, length of cephalic femur 8.3,
 length of caudal femur 16.8, length of ovipositor 17.1, greatest
 (median) width of ovipositor 2.2 mm.
Oxystethus intermedius Redtenbacher.
1891. Oxystethus intermedius Redtenbacher, Verb.. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 441. [J>, 9; Java.]
Tengger Mountains, Java, 1890, (from H. Fruhstorfer), 1 9 .
In coloration this specimen agrees fully with the original de-
 scription, except that the genicular areas of the tibiae are not
 darkened.
Length of body 23.7, greatest width of head 4.8, length of pro-
 notum 6.4, length of tegmen 5.7, width of tegmen 2.9, length of
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 217
cephalic femur 6.3, length of caudal femur 11.2, length of ovi-
 positor 12.1, greatest width of ovipositor 1.8 mm.
Oxystethus brevipennis Redtenbacher.
1891. Oxystelhus brevipennis Redtenbacher, Verb.. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 443. [ 9 , Java.]
Java, (determined as brevipennis and presented by H. de Saus-
 sure), 1 9 [A. N. S. P.]
The head and pronotum in this insect are not as decidedly im-
 presso-punctate as in 0. intermedins Redtenbacher.
Length of body 36, greatest width of head 8.2, length of pro-
 notum 9.5, length of tegmen 11.3, width of tegmen 5, length of
 cephalic femur 10.1, length of caudal femur 18.7, length of ovipositor
 17.5, greatest width of ovipositor 2.7 mm.
Oxylakis punctipennis Redtenbacher.
1891. Oxylakis punctipennis Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 447, pi. IV, fig. 60. [ 9 , Borneo.]
Redtenbacher does not comment on the shortness of the limbs
 and the numerous short, stiff hairs there found. The species ap-
 parently has no close allies.
Length of body 21.5, length of pronotum 5.7, caudal width of
 pronotal disk 4, length of tegmen 31, width of tegmen 5, length of
 cephalic femur 4.8, length of caudal femur 10.7, length of ovipositor
 10.2, greatest width of ovipositor 2.7 mm.
Anthracites major new species. Plate XVII, figure 19.
The large size and black body but almost uniformly pale limbs
 of this insect distinguish it from its nearest allies. Agreeing more
 closely with A. nitidus Redtenbacher in other features of colora-
 tion, the male genitalia are seen to be very different, while the
 limb spination is closer to that described for A. geniculates Dohrn.
 All of these species are known only from the Island of Mindanao.
Type: d 1 ; Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 836.]
Size large, form moderately robust, for the genus. Fastigium
 of vertex produced in a straight, very slenderly conical projection,
 its apex sharply rounded. Face smooth and shining, showing a
 few subobsolete impressions. Tegmina greatly reduced, much
 shorter than pronotum, with distal margin very broadly convex;
 stridulating field fully developed but in normal position wholly
 concealed by the pronotum. Cerci very short and heavy, weakly
 curved inward, with a heavy dorso-distal and a decidedly heavier
 ventro-distal tooth, these curved and directed strongly inward.
218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIY
Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, roundly produced distad on each
 side in a small area, from a socket on the ventral surface of which
 spring the styles, between these the caudal margin of the plate is
 roundly emarginate to the median point, where there is a rounded
 projection, deeper than wide and longer than deep. Styles stout,
 straight, cylindrical, two and one-half times as long as broad, with
 apices bluntly rounded. Femoral genicular lobes as follows;
 cephalic internal and median internal produced in a small but
 stout tooth, cephalic external and median external triangularly
 produced with apex rounded, caudal all strongly bispinose. Ventral
 femoral margins armed (in the pair at hand) as follows. Cephalic
 internal 5 to 6, cephalic external 4 to 5, median internal 2 to 2
 (proximal), median external 5 to 6, caudal internal 1 to 3, caudal
 external 7 to 8.
Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with male, differing as follows. Size larger.
 Pronotum with caudal portion of disk decidedly shorter and caudal
 margin truncate, weakly convex, rather than broadly and evenly
 rounded. Ovipositor moderately elongate, slender, unarmed,
 gradually curved dorsad and tapering to the acute apex. Sub-
 genital plate short, truncate-bilobate.
General coloration shining black, except in the following areas.
 Fastigium of vertex and two proximal antennal joints amber
 brown. Eyes brussels brown. Clypeus ochraceous-tawny, be-
 coming orange rufous on the labrum. Tegmina with all veinlets
 conspicuously reed yellow. Ovipositor shading from black to
 russet distad. Ventral surface of abdomen blackish brown.
 Femora amber brown, in the female with median and caudal femora
 weakly darkened proximad and distad. Tibiae ochraceous-buff,
 the spines amber brown. Tarsi with dorsal portions of first two
 joints ochraceous-buff, black in other portions.
Length of body <? 33, 9 36; length of pronotum & 10.8, 9 10;
 median depth of lateral lobe of pronotum d 1 5, 9 5.2; median
 width of lateral lobe of pronotum <? 7.3, 9 7.7; length of tegmen
 c? 6.8, 9 6; exposed length of tegmen <? 3.2, 9 4.7; width of tegmen
 <? 4.7, 9 4.6; length of cephalic femur d" 9.8, 9 10.3; length of
 caudal femur rj 1 23.3, 9 25.2; length of ovipositor 18; greatest
 width of ovipositor beyond immediate base 2.2 mm.
The species is known from the pair here described.
Anthracites zebra new species. Plate XVIII, figures 1 and 2.
This is a small, pale species, showing a beautiful color pattern
 of dark brown. It belongs to the same group as A. apoensis here
 described and, though apparently nearest in relationship to that
 species, differs strikingly in color pattern and male genitalic
 features.
In coloration alone it shows nearer agreement with A. femoralis
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 219
Dohrn, described from Minahassa, Celebes. That species is de-
 scribed as being decidedly larger, with very different male genitalia.
 Type: cf ; Mount Apo, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. June and
 July. (E. A. Mearns.) [United States National Museum.]
Size small, form normal for the genus. Fastigium of vertex
 produced in a straight, very slenderly conical projection, its narrow
 apex truncate. Face as in A. major here described. Tegmina
 much reduced, total length probably near that of pronotum, nar-
 rowing an$ rounding into the truncate apices; stridulating field in
 normal position wholly concealed by pronotum. Ultimate tergite
 with caudal margin weakly and triangularly bilobate produced
 caudad. Supra-anal plate vertical and tucked in between cerci,
 apparently broadly rotundato-trigonal. Cerci very short and
 heavy, dorsal surface flattened convex, disto-external angle sharply
 rounded rectangulate, disto-internal angle produced in a stout,
 decurved tooth. Subgenital plate flattened, lateral portions nar-
 rowly reflexed, the lateral margins gradually descending to apex,
 but in ventral aspect the sides appear parallel; distad strongly
 W-emarginate, the narrow lateral apices thus formed bearing a
 small socketed style disto-ventrad, above which they are ter-
 minated in a tooth of equal size, curved dorsad; the median pro-
 duced portion narrowly triangular and directed dorso-caudad.
 Femoral genicular lobes as follows; cephalic internal acutely tri-
 angular-produced, cephalic external and median external rounded,
 triangularly-produced, median internal unispinose, caudal internal
 and external bispinose. Ventral femoral margins armed, as follows.
 Cephalic internal 5 and 6, cephalic external 5 and 5, median internal
 2 and 3 (proximad), median external 6 and 6, caudal internal 1 and
 1, caudal external 7 and 8.
Head tawny, fastigium of vertex to base of clypeus forming an
 elongate blackish brown, triangular marking; mandibles blackish
 brown; remaining portions of clypeus ochraceous-buff, palpi paler;
 labrum ochraceous-buff tinged with tawny. Antennae ochraceous-
 tawny, the two proximal joints with flecks of dark brown, beyond
 with intersections of joints slightly darkened. Pronotum tawny,
 (paling laterad, cephalad and meso-caudad, possibly due to dis-
 coloration of the specimen), small caudal area of lateral lobes above
 humeral sinus with a suffusion of dark brown. Tegmina pale
 ochraceous-tawny, veins of marginal field buffy, the minute intervals
 between the veinlets dark brown. Abdomen clay color, each ter-
 gite laterad with caudal margin sharply defined in a striking, though
 narrow, vertical band of blackish chestnut brown, ultimate tergite
 with a weak brown suffusion dorsad on each side. Limbs ochra-
 ceous-tawny, with spines no darker, apices of caudal femora slightly
 paler as are the median and caudal tibiae, the latter, however,
 slightly darkened at apices.
Length of body 22, length of pronotum 8.4, median depth of
 lateral lobe of pronotum 2.9, median length of lateral lobe of
220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
pronotum 6, exposed length of tegmen 6.3, exposed width of tegmen
 3.8, length of cephalic femur 7.2, length of caudal femur 15.3 mm.
 The type of this handsome little insect is unique.
Anthracites apoensis new species. Plate XVIII, figures 3 and 4.
Closely resembling A. zebra, described above, in size and pale
 coloration, the present species may be readily distinguished by
 its pale face, more extensively and differently marked pronotum
 and abdomen, more abbreviated tegmina and by striking male
 genitalic differences.
Type : d" ; Mount Apo, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. June and
Agrees closely with zebra, except as follows. Fastigium of vertex
 produced in a straight, very slenderly conical projection, its apex
 very sharply rounded, almost aciculate. Tegmina greatly re-
 duced, much shorter than pronotum, with distal margin very
 broadly convex; stridulating field fully developed, but in normal
 position wholly concealed by pronotum. Ultimate tergite broadly
 and weakly concave disto-mesad, the deflexed supra-anal plate
 oval, with a broad medio-longitudinal sulcus. Cerci very heavy
 and short, broader than long, strongly inflated conical with dorso-
 internal portion sublamellate and produced distad slightly beyond
 apex proper, armed with a stout, feebly curved spine, directed
 mesad; ventro-internally with a weakly incurved, very slenderly
 cylindrical process, directed caudad and armed at apex with a
 small spine, directed mesad and immediately below the dorsal
 spine; between these the internal surface of the cercus is flattened.
 Lower podical plates chitinized along dorsal margins, terminating
 in a flattened, uncinate spine. Subgenital plate flattened, lateral
 portions narrowly reflexed, then curled outward, so that the lateral
 margins themselves are seen from below to be weakly convex con-
 vergent to the briefly produced latero-caudal apices; very broadly
 and deeply U-emarginate distad, the narrow lateral apices thus
 formed bearing a small, apical, socketed style, with an internal
 tooth of equal size, directed meso-dorsad. Femoral genicular
 lobes as follows; cephalic internal bluntly triangular-produced,
 median internal less strongly so, cephalic and median external
 rounded, caudal external and internal bispinose. Ventral femoral
 margins armed as follows, (in the pair at hand). Cephalic internal
 5 to 6, cephalic external 5 to 6, median internal 1 to 2 (proximad),
 median external 5 to 6, caudal internal 1 to 1, caudal external 4 to 7.
Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [United States National
 Museum.]
Agrees closely with male, differing as follows. Size somewhat
 larger. Pronotum with caudal portion of disk decidedly shorter
 and caudal margin more broadly convex. Ovipositor moderately
 elongate, gradually tapering to acute apex, unarmed, evenly and
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 221
weakly curved dorsad. Subgenital plate very short, truncate, sur-
 face concave mesad.
General coloration clay color. Mandibles blackish brown, with
 a suffusion of the same above their bases. Vertex, antennal scrobes
 and proximal joints of antennae marked with blackish brown, the
 antennae showing very short annuli of this color and with inter-
 sections of joints slightly darkened. Occiput with a postocular
 sulcus blackish brown on each side. Pronotum with a blackish
 brown suffusion latero-proximad on each side and a large suffusion
 of the same occupying all of the area of the lateral lobes above the
 humeral sinus and invading the disk, with internal margins parallel.
 Disk of pronotum latero-mesad between these markings with flecks
 of blackish brown and with a pair of minute flecks of the same mesad
 at the base of the produced caudal portion. Tegmina with minute
 intervals between veins and veinlets blackish brown. Abdomen
 with a median row of clay colored diamond-shaped spots narrowly
 delimited in blackish brown, mesad on each side is also a suffused,
 longitudinal blackish brown band. Limbs with spines dark brown,
 femora with a pre-genicular annulus of dark brown but with
 apices themselves very pale, these markings strongest on caudal
 femora. Cephalic and median tibiae suffused proximad and distad
 with dark brown. Ovipositor amber brown, becoming clay color
Length of body d* 21, 9 22.5; length of pronotum & 9.3, 9 8.2;
 median depth of lateral lobe of pronotum cf 3.1, 9 3.2; median
 length of lateral lobe of pronotum cf 6.4, 9 6.8; exposed length
 of tegmen d" 3.7, 9 3.3; exposed width of tegmen cf 3.7, 9 3.4;
 length of cephalic femur cf 7.8, 9 8.2; length of caudal femur
 cf 16, 9 16.9; length of ovipositor 14.5 mm.
Nicsara 71 bifasciata (Redtenbacher)
1891. Lobaspis bifasciatus Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XL1, p. 459, pi. IV, fig. 65. [d\ 9; Cape York and Rockhampton,
 Queensland, Australia.]
Townsville, Queensland, Australia, November 4, 1899, (F. P.
 Dodd), 1 cf .
This is one of the handsomest and most distinctively marked
 species of the genus.
Length of body 34.5, length of pronotum 10, length of tegmen
 42./, (least) median width of tegmen 6, length of cephalic femur
 9.7, length of caudal femur 23.9 mm.
71 The best key to the genus Nicsara is that given by Brunner for the synonymic
 Lobaspis, Abh. Senckenb. Naturforsch. Ges., XXIV, p. 267, (1898).
222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Nicsara taylori 72 new species. Plate XV, figure 7; plate XVIII, figure 5.
The present insect appears to be nearest N. inflata Brunner,
 described from the Island of Celebes. The female of that insect
 is unknown, but the ovipositor of the female of the apparently
 closely related N. nigrifrons Brunner, described from the Island
 of Lombok, agrees with that of taylori.
From inflata this species differs in having the proximal antennal
 segments pale, merely flecked with dark brown, the pronotal disk
 having dark lateral bands only, which are interrupted on the
 prozona and do not invade the lateral lobes and in having the limbs
 entirely pale, with pale spines.
Type: 9 ; Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (E. H.
 Tajdor.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 837.]
Average in size and form for the genus. Head and pronotum
 smooth and shining, showing a few minute subobsolete impressions.
 Pronotum with sulci strongly defined in dorsal portions of lateral
 lobes, convex callosity below humeral sinus more prominent and
 outlined by a more decided sulcus than normal in the genus. Teg-
 mina and wings fully developed, the former widening slightly to
 the broadly rounded apex. Ovipositor short and broader than is
 usual in the genus, curved dorsad, broadening gradually to median
 point, then narrowing gradually to the very acute apex. Subgenital
 plate subchitinous except at the thickened distal portions, truncate,
 transverse, leaving the decidedly hairy ventro-proximal portion of
 the ovipositor exposed. Genicular lobes of femora as follows;
 cephalic and median internal unispinose, cephalic and median
 external bluntly triangularly produced, caudal all bispinose.
 Ventral femoral margins armed as follows. Cephalic internal 6
 and 6, cephalic external 7 and 7, median internal 3 and 3, median
 external 7 and 7, caudal internal 2 (and 8 very small), caudal
 external 11.
General coloration clay color. Head with two small, weakly
 sulcate, postocular lines of blackish brown. Entire face shining
 black; median ocellus, clypeus and labrum clay color. Proximal
 antennal joint clay color with a minute suffusion of dark brown,
 antennae in other portions uniform clay color. Pronotum with
 lateral margins of disk defined irregularly in blackish brown, this
 forming a triangle to the first transverse sulcus, interrupted and
 subobsolete to next sulcus, thence broken to principal sulcus and
 heavy from that point to caudal margin of disk. Tegmina trans-
 parent clay color, with proximal portion of discoidal field weakly
 suffused with chestnut brown. Limbs and spines immaculate,
 clay color. Ovipositor clay color, tinged with tawny distad.
72 Named in honor of the collector, Mr. E. H. Taylor, who has done much work
 in Philippine Herpetology.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 223
Length of body 33, length of pronotum 10.4, caudal width of
 pronotal disk 5.1, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5.4, median width
 of pronotal lateral lobe 8.4, length of tegmen 43.5, median width
 of tegmen 7.3, distal width of tegmen 8.7, length of cephalic femur
 11.8, length of caudal femur 27.7, length of ovispositor 17.7, width
 of ovipositor beyond base 2.2, width of ovipositor mesad 2.9 mm.
Nicsara philippina new species. Plate XV, figure 8; plate XVIII, figures 6 and 7-
Apparently nearest N. taylori here described, the present species
 is quickly separated by the suffused but much paler face, solidly
 black irregular bands separating the disk from the lateral lobes of
 the pronotum, not as decided convex callosity of the lateral lobes
 below the humeral sinus, delicately though distinctively marked
 limbs, decidedly more elongate ovipositor which is curved less
 strongly upward and tapers evenly from the basal portion and
 dark spines of the ventral femoral margins.
Discovery of the male of taylori will probably show marked
 genitalic differences to further distinguish that sex of these species.
Type: cf 1 ; Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 838.]
Agrees fully with the description of taylori, except in the following
 features. Size somewhat smaller and caudal margin of the pro-
 notal disk slightly more convex, as would be expected for the male
 when compared with the female sex. Convex callosity of lateral
 lobes of pronotum normal for the genus, not as decided as in taylori.
 Ultimate tergite truncate distad and hairy; supra-anal plate vertical
 and largely concealed by the arms of the cerci. Cerci heavy, very
 short, convex conical, but with minute apex acute, in length slightly
 exceeding their proximal width; meso-dorsad furnished on the
 internal surface with a cylindrical arm as long as the cercus, directed
 mesad with distal portion bent slightly meso-caudad, tapering to
 the apex which is armed with a heavy, weakly curved spine; beyond
 this on the ventro-internal margin of the cercus is another arm,
 forming with it a V-shaped interval with apex truncate, this more
 distal arm two-thirds as elongate, straight, similarly cylindrical
 and tapering to the rounded apex which is armed with a similar
 spine on its proximal face, this spine forming an obtuse angulation
 with the shaft of this arm. Subgenital plate feebly tricarinate
 d : stad, these carinae low and rounded, the distal margin between
 the styles angulate-emarginate at slightly less than ninety degrees,
 the lateral projections thus formed with apices bluntly rounded.
 Styles situated there in sockets at apices of the lateral carinae,
 straight, cylindrical, slightly flattened proximad and there very
 slightly narrower than at the rounded apex, each slightly over
 three times as long as greatest width. Femoral genicular lobes as
 in taylori. Ventral femoral margins armed with similar spines, as
224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXX1V
follows. 73 Cephalic internal 5 and 5(96 and 6), cephalic external
 3 and 3(94 and 4), median internal 0(92 and 2), median external
 5 and 5(96 and 6), caudal internal 1(92 and 2), caudal external
 7 (9 9 and 10).
Allotype: 9 ; Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (E. H.
 Taylor.) [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with the male, differing as follows. Size larger,
 nearly equal to that of the female of taylori. Caudal margin of
 pronotal disk slightly more truncate, as in this sex of taylori.
 Pronotum with convex callosity of lateral lobes as in male, not as
 decided as in taylori. Ovipositor elongate, slender, tapering evenly
 from beyond base to the acute apex; weakly curved dorsad, this
 not as decided as in taylori and strongest meso-distad. Subgenital
 plate of the same type developed in this sex of taylori, the thickened
 distal portion heavier and more extensive, the transverse distal
 margin showing a weak trace of bilobation.
General coloration of male buckthorn brown tinged with tawny.
 Occiput, vertex and genae of that color, the occiput with a post-
 ocular line on each side of dark brown; face heavily suffused, mars
 brown, with a faint vertical median line of prouts brown; median
 ocellus buff, clypeus buffy, this deepening on labrum to russet
 distad, mandibles black. Antennae ochraceous-tawny, with inter-
 sections of a few joints darkened. Pronotum of general coloration,
 the disk slightly paler and more tawny, separated from lateral
 lobes by a broad, irregular band of blackish brown, sharply defined
 on the dorsal margin, vague on the ventral margin, this band oc-
 cupying as much a portion of the disk as of the lateral lobes. Teg-
 mina transparent buckthorn brown, suffused with tawny, this
 deepening in proximal portion of discoidal field, th^re weakly
 chestnut brown, flecks of the same toward the humeral trunk proxi-
 mad in marginal field. Limbs buckthorn brown tinged with tawny,
 with very numerous, narrow, transverse lines of darker brown of a
 more tawny shade, distad the caudal femora deepen and become
 solidly brown, with distal portion conspicuously paler, ochraceous-
 buff tinged with buckthorn brown, spines deep russet. Abdomen
 clay color.
The female is a much darker, intensively colored individual;
 in general coloration prouts brown tinged with chestnut. The
 markings are as described above, the distal portion of the caudal
 femora ochraceous buff in even greater contrast. The ovipositor
 is dresden brown proximad, in remaining portions shining burnt
 sienna.
Length of body c? 29, 9 32.4; length of pronotum c? 8.8, 9 10;
 caudal width of pronotal disk c? 4.3, 9 5; depth of pronotal lateral
3 The difference in spine count we believe to be wholly attributable to in-
 dividual variation. So closely does the pair here described agree in all other
 features of specific diagnostic value, that we feel fully warranted in designating
 the female as allotype.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 225
lobe; cf 4.8, 9 5.2; median width of pronotal lateral lobe cf 5.9,
 9 7.3; length of tegmen cf 37.7, 9 47; median width of tegmen
 cf 6.1, 9 7.7; distal width of tegmen cf 6.9, 9 8.3; length of ce-
 phalic femur cf 9.3, 9 11.1; length of caudal femur cf 24.1, 9 29;
 Lngth of ovipositor 23.7, width of ovipositor beyond base 2.3,
 width of ovipositor mesad 2.1 mm.
Nicsara thoracica (Dohrn) Plate XV, figure 9.
1905. Lobaspis thoracica Dohrn, Ent. Zeit. Stettin, LXVI, p. 239. [cf, 9 ;
Obi Island, [Moluccas].]
 1907. Lobaspis bimaculata Karny, (not of Redtenbacher, 1891), Revisio
Conocephalidarum, p. 69. [ 9 ; Obi Island, Moluccas.]
Karny, in his revision, overlooked Dohrn 's Indo-Malayan Cono-
 cephalid paper of 1905, in which three species of this genus were
 described, and as a result described the female of the present
 species as bimaculata, belonging to a series in which "dorso medio
 pronoti toto nigro differunt." This difference in pronotal marking
 constitutes one of the most striking color features to separate
 thoracica from bimaculata.
Obi, Island, Moluccas, 1 cf , 2 9 .
Length of body cf 24, 9 29 and 25.5; length of pronotum cf 9.3,
 9 9 and 9; caudal width of pronotal disk cf 4, 9 4.1 and 4.1;
 length of tegmen cf 29.8, 9 34.3 and 37; median width of tegmen
 cf 5, 9 5.8 and 5.9; distal width of tegmen cf 4.8, 9 5.6 and 5.7;
 length of cephalic femur cf 9.2, 9 9.8 and 10; length of caudal
 femur cf 20.8, 9 22.7 and 23.1; length of ovipositor 18.2 and 20.7;
 median width of ovipositor 1.7 and 1.7 mm.
Nicsara bimaculata (Redtenbacher)
1891. Lobaspis bimacvlata Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 462. [cf ; Halmahera, Gilolo Island (nee Dschilolo), [Moluccas].]
Like M. thoracica (Dohrn), this insect is apparent^ subject to
 decided variation in length of tegmina and limbs. These species
 are very closely related, the present being recognizable by the
 blackish brown suffusions laterad on the cylpeal suture and the
 pronotal marking, consisting of only small latero-cephalic and
 latero-caudal dark markings on the disk.
Length of body 23, length of pronotum 9.2, caudal width of
pronotal disk 3.7, length of tegmen 26. 7, median width of tegmen
4.3, distal width of tegmen 4.1, length of cephalic femur 8.2, length
of caudal femur 18 mm.
Rhytidogyne griffinii Karny.
1907. Rhytidogyne griffinii Karny, Revisio Conocephalidarum, p. 70, fig. 15.
 [ 9, Annam.j
226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Xom-Gom, southern Annam, February, (from H. Fruhstorfer),
Length of body 42.3, width of head 10, length of pronotum 10.3,
 exposed length of tegmen 2.1, width of interspace between tegmina
 1, length of cephalic femur 11.2, length of caudal femur 18.8, length
 of ovipositor 20 mm.
Dicranocercus zamboangae new species. Plate XVIII, figures 8 and 9.
The coloration, though dull, readily distinguishes this insect
 from the two previously known species of the genus. In general
 appearance the male resembles that sex of Macroxiphus vaginatus
 Pictet, but closer examination shows the numerous distinctive
 features by which these genera are separated, while striking dif-
 ferences in coloration are then also noted. The remarkable cerci
 of the male are different from those of any other Tettigoniid known.
Type : d 71 ; Zamboanga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 839.]
Size slightly smaller than that of D. niger Pedtenbacher, 74 form
 moderately slender. Vertex slenderly produced, compressed, de-
 cidedly ascendant, with apsx sharply rounded; dorsal surface with
 a low rounded carina, which is strongest proximad. Face deeply
 and thickly impresso-punctate, lateral portions of occiput and all
 of pronotum similarly but more shallowly impresso-punctate.
 Pronotum not produced and truncate caudad; lateral lobes weakly
 broadening caudad with ventro-caudal angle sharply rounded
 rectangulate and caudal margin nearly straight, very weakly
 oblique and nearly vertical. Prosternum unarmed. Tegmina
 and wings decidedly reduced, falling short of the apices of the
 caudal femora. Ultimate tergite large, distal margin truncate
 but showing broad convexity laterad and brief concavity mesad;
 supra-anal plate concealed. Cerci heavy proximad, there ventro-
 internally produced in a large tooth which is directed mesad,
 beyond this short proximal portion cylindrical, tapering to the
 sharply rounded apex, the ventral portion developed into a very
 large lamellate plate which widens gradually but strongly proximad
 from the apex of the cercus, its ventral portion curled inward and
 produced in a large lamellate finger directed meso-cephalad, then
 with free margin deeply convex to a smaller rounded lamellate
 projection directed mesad, thence with the free margin deeply
 concave to shaft of cercus. Subgenital plate with lateral margins
 broadly concave convergent, deeply U-emarginate distad, with the
 slender lateral apices thus formed weakly divergent; a small de-
 curved style, three times as long as broad, situated in a socket
 disto-ventrad on each of these. Genicular lobes of femora uni-
74 Described from Jolo Island, Sulu Archipelago.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 227
spinose, except the cephalic external and median external which
 are bluntly rounded. Ventral femoral margins armed with spines,
 as follows. Cephalic internal 3 and 4, cephalic external 5 and 5,
 median internal 0, median external 5 and 6, caudal internal 0,
 caudal external 9 and 10.
General coloration prouts brown tinged with russet, the limbs
 deep russet except the cephalic tibiae which are hessian brown.
 Pronotum narrowly dorsad, median portion of occiput, all of vertex,
 two proximal antennal joints, antennal scrobes and frontal fas-
 tigium blackish chestnut brown. Face hessian brown.
Length of body 28, length of pronotum 6.7, caudal width of pro-
 notal disk 2.9, length of tegmen 13, median width of tegmen 13,
 distal width of tegmen 1.8, length of cephalic femur 7.2, length of
 caudal femur 13.7, length of cercus 4 mm.
Macroxiphus vaginatus Pictet.
1888. M [acroxiphus] vaginatus Pictet Mem. Soc. Phys. d'Hist. Nat. Geneve,
 XXX, No. 6, p. 53, pi. II, fig. 27. [ 9 , Java. 75 ]
Kina Balu, British North Borneo, 1 9 .
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 cT, 2 9 .
Length of body c? 38, 9 39 to 41; length of pronotum cf 8.7,
9 10 to 10.1; caudal width of pronotal disk tf 3.8, 9 4.7 to 4.8;
length of tegmen cf 29.4, 9 36.5 to 40; length of cephalic femur
<? 9.6, 9 11.9 to 12; length of caudal femur d 1 19.2, 9 24.7 to
24.7; length of ovipositor 46.2 to 49.8 mm.
Macroxiphus megapterus Brongniart.
1896. Macroxiphus megapterus Brongniart, Bull. Soc. Philom. Paris, (8),
 Vlll, p. 130, fig. 2. '[9, North Borneo.]
Kina Balu, British North Borneo, 1 cf.
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 C? , 1 9 .
We concur with Karny in considering Dohrn's M. pictipes a
 synonym of this species. Dohrn, however, stated for the male
 cerci, "apice bifidi, subtus in medio dente brevi acuto instructi."
 There appears to be some inaccuracy here, as the males before us,
 though agreeing closely in other respects, have the strongly in-
 curved cerci bidentate distad and, though unarmed ventrad, bearing
 mesad on the dorso-external margin a stout, uncinate tooth, directed
 caudad.
 Acanthocoryphus mindanensis new species. Plate XVIII, figures 10 and 11.
The present insect is widely distinct from A. brongniarti Karny,
75 We fully agree with Dohrn (Ent. Zeit. Stettin, LXVI, p. 2^3, (1905),' in
 believing that Pictet was in error in giving Java as the type locality for this
 species. All subsequent material studied indicates that this remarkable insect
 is peculiar to Borneo.
228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
described from Tonkin, but no characters warranting generic
 separation can be determined after close comparison with the
 description of that species.
The fully developed tegmina give mindanensis a much stronger
 resemblance to species of the genus Salomona. It is, however,
 easily distinguished from that genus by the unspined prosternum,
 specialized vertex, absence of a spine on the median coxae, 76
 ovipositor of the type found in Oxylakis and other less important
The fully developed organs of flight, much shorter vertex, very
 weakly impresso-punctate face, pronotum which is produced caudad
 with humeral sinus distinct, apparently different femoral armament
 and coloration quickly separate 'mindanensis from brongniarti.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 841.]
Size medium, form robust; much as in the smaller heavier species
 of Salomona. Head very large and broad, occiput moderately
 impresso-punctate, face shallowly impresso-punctate, genae more
 strongly so and irregularly rugulose. Vertex produced in a slender
 conical fastigium, slightly longer than its proximal width, with apex
 rounded; dorsal surface with low, heavy basal tooth, then a blunt
 tubercle followed by two transverse sulci. Pronotum much as in
 Salomona, but with ventro-caudal portions of lateral lobes bent
 outward; disk flattened, rugulose, with a slightly impressed area
 at the weakly indicated principal sulcus, caudal portion slightly
 produced with caudal margin truncate; lateral lobes rugose with
 sulci distinct, ventral margin oblique declivent caudad, weakly
 obtuse-angulate-emarginate cephalad, ventro-caudal portions lightly
 and roundly produced so that a broad humeral sinus is indicated.
 Tegmina and wings extending to near apex of ovipositor. Ovi-
 positor unarmed, weakly curved dorsad, broadening slightly beyond
 base, then narrowing gradually to the rounded apex. Subgenital
 plate short, with caudal margin truncate. Genicular lobes of
 femora unispinose, except the external of the cephalic and median
 femora, which are roundly produced. Cephalic and median femora
 moderately heavy, their ventral margins distad showing a broad
 and weak but appreciable concavity. Ventro-internal margin of
 cephalic femora armed with a large spine preceded by (1 to 3) very
 small spines, followed by (2 to 3) small spines and then a larger
 spine. Ventro-external margin of median femora armed with
 three large spines, of which the median is the largest, with (2 or 3)
 small spines in the intervals between. Ventro-external margin of
76 In all species of the genus Salomona before us, both the cephalic and median
 coxae bear a stout spine, those of the median coxae being shorter and more
 uncinate.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 229
caudal femora armed with six large spines. Other femoral margins
 unarmed.
General coloration buffy brown. Head ochraceous-buff paling
 to warm buff on face, occiput with large, vague, asymmetrical
 suffusions of saccardos umber. Cephalic face of vertex, internal
 surface of first antennal joint, antennal scrobes, margins of frontal
 fastigium, clypeal, mandibular and labral sutures and mandibles
 blackish brown, labrum tawny. Antennae ochraceous-buff, each
 joint heavily suffused with blackish brown proximad, uniform
 ochraceous tawny distad. Pronotum with disk clear antimony
 yellow, with cephalic margin very narrowly blackish brown; lateral
 lobes antimony yellow, with patches of prouts brown dorsad, the
 free margin heavily blackish brown to numeral sinus. Tegmina
 buckthorn brown, the very numerous veinlets slightly paler and
 yellow ocher in proximal portion of marginal field, distad numerous
 minute scattered areolae between the veinlets are blackish brown.
 Limbs buckthorn brown tinged with tawny. Ovipositor och-
 raceous-buff with dorsal margin and suture between valves tawny.
Length of body 33, length of fastigium of vertex 1.3, width of
 head 8.3, length of pronotum 9.7, caudal width of pronotal disk 5.3,
 length of tegmen 29.7, width of tegmen 6.3, length of cephalic
 femur 8.2, length of caudal femur 14.7, length of ovipositor 14,
 least proximal width of ovipositor 2.1, median width of ovipositor
 2.7 mm.
Salomona nigripes new species. Plate XVIII, figure 12.
This very large species is distinguished by the immaculate face,
 which is smooth in a large triangular median area, containing
 eight symmetrically arranged impressed punctae, the solidly black
 femora and tibiae, the straight and almost acute fastigium of the
 vertex, which shows a medio-longitudinal, linear dorsal sulcation
 and numerous other less striking features.
In coloration of the femora nearest agreement is with S. laticeps,
 described from Amboina by Haan. The inner portions of the
 caudal femora, in that species, are however yellow.
Type : 9 ; Setekwa River, southwest coast of Dutch New Guinea,
opposite Aru Islands. (From A. S. Meek.) [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 840.]
Size very large, form robust. Vertex produced in a straight,
 rather short, nearly acute fastigium, with very sharply rounded
 apex showing a very weak deflection, the dorsal surface showing a
 very fine, linear, medio-longitudinal sulcation. Face with a median,
 triangular, smooth area with two small impressed punctae below
 the inner margins of the antennal scrobes, two similar but larger
 punctae mesad between these and two very small ones above the
 clypeal suture, with a heavier impressed puncta on each side above
230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
the lateral extremities of that suture. Other lateral portions of
 face and genae heavily rugose and impresso-punctate, occiput
 smooth with well separated, weakly impressed lines and punctae.
 Pronotum normal for the genus, the principal sulcus deep dorsad
 but decidedly deeper laterad. Tegmina and wings well developed,
 but extending caudad only slightly beyond median portion of ovi-
 positor and probably unfitted for sustained flight in so heavy bodied
 an insect. Ovipositor unarmed, evenly curved dorsad and oi equal
 width to the distal portion, where it tapers to the narrowly round-
 ed apex. Subgenital plate bilobate, with disto-lateral portions thick-
 ened. Ventral femoral margins armed with spines, as follows.
 Cephalic internal 6 and 6, cephalic external 6 and 6, median in-
 ternal 1 and 1, median external 6 and 6, caudal internal 0, caudal
 external 9 and 9.
Coloration shining. Pronotum, occiput, caudal portions of genae
 and eyes pale sudan brown. Cephalic portions of genae and all of
 face mahogany red. Mandibles claret brown proximad, deepening
 to black distad. Clypeus and palpi ochraceous-buff, labrum mars
 yellow. Cephalic portion of vertex (except its immediate apex),
 frontal fastigium (but not connecting ridge between these), an-
 tennal scrobes and first two antennal joints black, remaining
 portions of antennae mahogany red. Tegmina sudan brown,
 the veins and veinlets proximad citrine (greenish), the tegmina
 with (12 and 15) scattered a d sharply denned small patches of
 blackish brown. Femora and tibiae black, the genicular areas
 sanf ords brown, the intervals between the j oints buff y ; tarsi sanf ords
 brown. Mesosternum and metasternum largely blackish, other
 portions of body brownish buff, flecked with blackish brown.
 Ovipositor rich chestnut, briefly brownish buff proximad and liver
 brown distad.
Length of body 64, width of head, 12.2, length of pronotum 14.8,
 caudal width of pronotal disk 9.3, length of tegmen 55.7, median
 width of tegmen 13.2, length of cephalic femur 16.8, length of
 caudal femur 28.2, length of ovipositor 26.1, greatest width of
 ovipositor 3.6 mm.
The type of this handsome insect is unique.
Salomona coriacea Redtenbacher.
1891. Salomona coriacea Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, XLI,
 p. 476. [cf : Moluccas; Aru [Islands]; Batjan [Island, Moluccas].]
The female before us agrees closely with Redtenbacher's de-
 scription, except that the black area of the mouthparts extends
 dorsad, occupying a transversely rectangular area above the
 clypeal suture.
Length of body 50, width of head 11, length of pronotum 12.8,
 caudal width of pronotal disk 8, length of tegmen 28.3, median
 widtli of tegmen 12.7, length of cephalic femur 15, length of caudal
1922] NATUPAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 231
femur 24.7., length of ovipositor 22.3, greatest width of ovipositor
3.1 mm.
Salomona conspersa St&l.
1877. S[alomona] conspersa Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877,
 No. 10, p. 46. [d", Philippine Islands.]
Butuan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9
Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
 1 large juv. 9 .
In spite of the very inadequate original description, we believe
 the present insect to be correctly located. The only feature in
 any way disturbing is that Stal gives, for the male length, including
 the tegmina, 58 mm., this dimension being, for the female before
 us, only 51 mm. Such decided size variation has, however, been
 recorded for other species of Salomona.
The general coloration is clay color, the mandibles and spines
 black, the tegmina with numerous very small flecks of blackish
 brown. The antennae have the first two joints clay color, the
 others chestnut-brown, solidly so distad, but in greater portion
 with intersections between the joints clay color. The ovipositor
 is much as in S. nigripes here described.
The vertex is exactly as in S.maculifrons Stal, its fastigium short,
 straight, acute conical, strongly ascendant, dorsad with a small
 tubercle at its base and with cephalic surface somewhat swollen.
 The structure is slightly more robust, with head broader than in
 that species; the face and genae much less deeply impresso-punctate,.
 best described as thickly covered with shallow but large impressed
 puncta. The ovipositor differs from that of maculifrons in not
 tapering as markedly distad to the apex, which is distinctly less
 acute.
Had it been included, the species would have been placed in a
 different section of Redtenbacher's, Brongniart's and Karny's keys
 to the genus from maculifrons, due to the facial sculpture. Never-
 theless, it is clear that these species are more closely related
 to each other than to the other species of Salomona here discussed.
Length of body 41, width of head 8.8, length of pronotum 10.8,
cauial width of pronotal disk 5.9, length of tegmen 35.1, median
width of tegmen 8.6, length of cephalic femur 13, length of caudal
femur 22.7, length of ovipositor 20.2, greatest width of ovipositor
2.8 mm.
Salomona maculifrons Stal.
1877. Salomona maculifrons Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877,
 No. 10, p. 46. [d\ Philippine Islands.]
232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Polillo Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (E. H. Taylor), 1 9 .
Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (fromC. F. Baker),
 1 <? , [U. S. N. M.].
In addition to the markings described by Stal, the femora in the
 specimens before us are ornamented with numerous small, blackish
 brown transverse spots or short li les, arranged in transverse series.
The insect is compared with S. conspersa Stal under that species.
Length of body 33.5 and 41.5, width of head 7.4 and 7.8, length
 of pronotum 9.6 and 10.1, caudal width of pronotal disk 5.7 and
 5.8, length of tegmen 34.5 and 37.1, median width of tegmen 7.7
 and 8.7, length of cephalic femur 11.8 and 12.1, length of caudal
 femur 20.8 and 20.9, length of ovipositor 19.2 and 18.8, greatest
 width of ovispositor 2.8 and 2.7 mm.
Salomona guamensis new species. Plate XXII, figure 1.
This species is nearest S. vittifrons Walker (better known as the
 synonymous S. dohrni Redtenbacher). It agrees in the com-
 paratively small size, heavily and thickly impresso-punctate face,
 immaculate pronotum and tegmina which extend beyond the apex
 of the abdomen. It differs in the darkened face, clypeus and
 labrum, pale antennae, tegmina without spots and pale, trans-
 parent wings.
Type: 9 ; Island of Guam. July, 1918. (P. Nelson.) [Hebard
Collection, Type no. 856.]
Size rather small, form robust for the genus; larger and very
 much heavier than S. lita here described. Head broad; face and
 genae heavily, thickly and irregularly ruguloso-impresso-punctate ;
 occiput weakly impresso-punctate and showing a few irregular,
 impressed lines. Vertex slender, acute-conical, straight but some-
 what declivent toward its acute apex, below which its cephalic
 surface shows a convexity, projecting as far as the apex. 77 Pro-
 notum nearly quadrate in dorsal aspect, surface impresso-punctate,
 principal transverse sulcus alone decided, caudal margin of disk
 transverse, each side showing very faint concavity. Tegmina
 and wings showing some reductions, extending a short distance
 beyond the apices of the caudal femora. Ultimate tergite greatly
 depressed, lying below and beneath preceding tergite, deeply cleft
 medio -longitudinally, with surfaces of lateral portions weakly
 convex. Ovipositor unarmed, evenly and broadly curved dorsad
 and with meso-distal portion very faintly wider than just beyond
 the swollen base, tapering distad to the narrowly rounded apex.
 In the type the dorsal surface of the vertex is smooth proximad, in the para-
 1 ype a decided conical tubercle is found there. This is the first case noted where,
 in Salomona, such tuberculation is found to be present, or absent, in individuals of
 unquestionably the same species.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 233
Subgenital plate short, median portion moderately concave, round-
 ing into the vertical lateral portions, disto-lateral angles rounded,
 with caudal margin between broadly obtuse-angulate emarginate.
 Ventral femoral margins armed with spines as follows. Cephalic
 internal 4 to 6, cephalic external 3 to 5, median internal 2 to 3,
 median external 4 to 5, caudal internal 0, caudal external 7 to 8.
Shining clay color. Head cinnamon buff, in the paratype with
 a greenish tinge. Face and cephalic portions of genae, except in
 subocular area, blackish chestnut brown; below subocular area
 broadly margined with hazel, with subocular area itself of the
 general pale coloration; clypeus, labrum and mandibles blackish
 brown; cephalic surface of vertex and proximal antennal joints
 washed with brown, remaining portions of antennae ochraceous
 tawny. Eyes isabella color. Pronotum and limbs immaculate
 clay color, in the paratype with a greenish tinge. Tegmina im-
 maculate, the principal veins of the pronotal coloration, the in-
 tervals between these slightly darker, but the veinlets themselves
 noticeably paler, cinnamon buff. Palpi and abdomen clay color,
 the latter apparently suffused with brown disto-ventrad (discolored
 ?) . Ovipositor rich chestnut, slightly darker distad and buffy in
 enlarged proximal portion.
The measurements of the type are given first. Length of body
 35 and 36, width of head 9 and 10, length of pronotum 9.7 and
 10.1, caudal width of pronotal disk 5.8 and 5.9, length of tegmen
 30 and 31.7, median width of tegmen 7.7 and 8.3, length of cephalic
 femur 10.7 and 11.7, length of caudal femur 17.2 and 18.7, length
 of ovipositor 17 and 19, greatest width of ovipositor 2.6 and 2.7 mm.
In addition to the type, a single paratypic female, taken on the
 Island of Guam, by D. T. Fulloway and belonging to the United
 States National Museum, is before us.
Salomona lita new species. Plate XVIII, figure 13.
This plainly colored and diminutive species has the caudal
 femora armed as in S. ornata Brunner and its allies. The pale
 green fastigium of the vertex appears to afford an inconspicuous
 but valuable color character.
Though running close to S. dohrni Redtenbacher ( = S. vittifrons
 (Walker)) in the keys, the present insect differs widely from that
 species in numerous features.
Type: cf ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type no.
 842.]
Size small, form slender for this genus of large and very robust
 species. Head comparatively narrow, much as in ornata, but with
 face and genae heavily impresso-punctulate and occiput weakly
 ruguloss; vertex very slenderly lamellate produced, straight,
 (neither ascendant or decurved, sulcate or nodulose), with apex
 in lateral aspect rounded. Pronotum much as in ornata, but with
234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol LXXIV
surface smooth, caudal margin of disk transversely truncate and
 transverse sulci weaker. Tegmina and wings showing some re-
 duction, extending a short distance beyond the apices of the caudal
 femora. Ultimate tergite produced caudad in two fingers which
 are slightly convergent, then curve outward weakly near their
 acute apices, showing throughout a broad convexity dorsad; the
 area between these is evenly curved, forming more than a semi-
 circle proximad. Cerci very large and heavy; shaft with internal
 surface oblique and flattened from proximo-median point to apex,
 bearing proximo-mesad on its ventral margin an elongate, sigmoid
 process with apex acute, above which is a heavy, blunt, cylindrical
 process; apex of cercus with a large dorso-external and a smaller
 ventro-internal tooth, both of these curving inward. Subgenital
 plate with lateral margins w r eakly convergent to the broad and
 weakly undulate, transverse caudal margin; styles at slightly
 produced apices of latero-caudal angles, small, cylindrical, four times
 as long as proximal width. Limbs short and heavy, much shorter
 than in ornata. Ventral femoral margins armed with spines, as
 follows. Cephalic internal 6 and 6, cephalic external 6 and 6,
 median internal 2 and 2, median external 6 and 6, caudal internal
 4 and 5 (small), caudal external 7 and 8 (and 4 and 5 very small
 proximal spines).
General coloration shining ochraceous-buff tinged with ochra-
 ceous-tawny. Fastigium of vertex neva green. Face below eyes
 deepening to russet, with large triangular median portion deepening
 to prouts brown, the clypeus almost wholly covered by two suf-
 fusions of blackish chestnut-brown, the labrum ochraceous orange,
 the mandibles blackish chestnut-brown. Antennae with first
 two joints of the general coloration, elsewhere uniform ochraceous -
 tawny. Tegmina transparent, of the general coloration, with
 veins and veinlets warm buff, except in marginal field where they
 are paler, light buff. Limbs of the general coloration, all spines
 russet; genicular areas of cephalic and median femora faintly washed
 with green; cephalic tibiae with a fleck of dark brown dorsad at the
 apex of the auditory foramina.
Length of body 29, width of head 5.8, length of pronotum 8.9,
 caudal width of pronotal disk 4.4, length of tegmen 23.2, median
 width of tegmen 4.6, length of cephalic femur 8.5, length of caudal
 femur 15.7, length of cercus 5.1 mm.
Salomona ornata Brunner.
1898. Salomona ornata Brunner, Abh. Senckenb. Naturforsch. Ges., XXIV,
 p. 270, pi. XX, figs. 52, 52a and 52b. {&, 9; Halmahera, [Gilolo
 Island, Celebes].]
Length of body 26.3 and 29.3, width of head 5.8 and 6.2, length
 of pronotum 9 and 9.2, caudal width of pronotal disk 4.6 and 4.7,
 length of tegmen 32.4 and 36, median width of tegmen 6.3 and 7.3,
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 235
distal width of tegmen 6.1 and 6.9, length of cephalic femur 9
 and 10.7, length of caudal femur 21.2 and 23.7, length of ovipositor
 15.9 and 16.8, greatest width of ovipositor 2.3 and 2.4 mm.
Salomona lobaspoides Karny.
1907. Salomona lobaspoides Karny, Abh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, IV, p. 77.
 [cf, Obi [Island], Moluccas.]
The only differences between this individual and those recorded
 as S. ornata Brunner are as follows. Size larger, coloration some-
 what deeper, caudal portion of pronotal disk more produced and
 more strongly rounded caudad, pronotal lateral lobes with caudal
 angulation stronger and tegmina which widen distinctly caudad.
In these insects the genicular lobes of the femora are as follows ;
 internal of cephalic and median femora unispinose, external of the
 same triangularly produced, all of caudal femora bispinose.
There is a decided possibility that lobaspoides may prove to be but
 a striking phase developed in the species ornata.
Length of body 35.5, width of head 8.1, length of pronotum 12,
 caudal width of pronotal disk 5.8, length of tegmen 49.2, median
 width of tegmen 10.7, distal width of tegmen 11.7, length of cephalic
 femur 12.9, length of caudal femur 27.7, length of ovipositor 19.3,
 greatest width of ovipositor 3 mm.
COPIPHOMNAE
Lesina ensifer (Brulle)
1835. Megalodon ensifer Brulle, Hist. Nat. Ins., IX, p. 157, pi. XV, fig. 4.
 [ 9, East Indies.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 cf.
We agree with Kirby, who examined Walker's type of Lesina
 lutescens, an immature male, in considering these species congeneric.
 We do not believe, however, that blanchardi Brongniart 78 is gener-
 ically distinct (as did Kirby) and in consequence we place Eume-
 galodon Brongniart, proposed for the preoccupied Megalodon, in
 synonymy under Lesina. In fact it appears probable that lutescens
 will be found a synonym of ensifer. Karny doubted Kirby's
 assigrment of Lesina and in consequence retained the name
 Eumegalodon.
The specimen of this uncouth, spiny insect before us is bister,
 shading toward sayal brown, the dorsal surface of the limbs buffy
 brown. The vertex and proximal portions of the antennae are
7S
A Siamese specimen of that species is before us.
236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
chocolate, the eyes vandyke brown. The huge face is tinged with
 greenish and shows a pair of bister punctae mesad, while the labrum
 and proximal portion of the clypeus are vinaceous russet, the distal
 portion of the clypeus and jaws shining blackish brown.
Length of body 52.5, width of head 15, height of fastigium of
 vertex 3.8, length of pronotum 20.4, width between tips of longest
 dorsal pronotal spines 15.7, length of tegmen 31.8, median width
 of tegmen 11.8, greatest (distal) width of tegmen 13, length of
 cephalic femur 17.8, length of caudal femur 27.4 mm.
Xestophrys javanicus Redtenbacher.
1891. Xestophrys javanicus Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 362, pi. Ill, fig. 16. [d\ 9 ; Java.]
The ventral femoral margins are armed with very small but
 stout spines, as follows. Cephalic internal 2 to 3, cephalic external
 1 to 2, median internal 0, median external 3 to 4, caudal internal
 to 1, caudal external 7 to 9.
The present specimens are clay colored, the dorsal surface of
 head and pronotum with very weak longitudinal streaks, the face
 suffused toward the clypeus with dark brown, the mandibles
 blackish except in proximo-external portions, the tegmina with
 subobsolete, scattered brown flecks.
Length of body 31.7 and 30, length of fastigium of vertex 79 1.8
 and 2, length of pronotum 8 and 8.1, length of tegmen 33.8 and
 32.2, length of caudal femur 15 and 15.2, length of ovipositor 12.8
 and 13.5 mm.
Pyrgocorypha philippina new species. Plate XXI, figure 1.
The present insect may be distinguished from the previously
 known Asiatic species of the genus by the longer fastigium of the
 vertex, heavier limb armament and dark proximal marking of
 the ventro-external margins of the caudal femora.
In general size it agrees closely with P. formosanus (Matsumura
 and Shiraki).
Type: cf ; Baguio, Benguet, Luzon, Philippine Islands. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 857.]
Size large for the genus, form robust. Fastigium of vertex
 elongate; dorsal surface flat, heavily and irregularly rugose, with
79 As is customary, this measurement is taken from the ventro- cephalic base,
 where a tooth occurs if present, to the apex.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 237
lateral margins converging evenly to the acute apex; ventral
 surface convex, rugulose, showing an indication of medio-longi-
 tudinal angulation, basal spine prominent, slender, with apex
 rounded, separated from frontal fastigium by a space greater than
 its width, which in lateral aspect is rounded. Head with occiput
 and genae weakly rugulose, face more strongly so. Pronotum
 heavily rugulose, disk flattened and separated from lateral lobes by
 heavy and blunt lateral carinae. Tegmina and wings fully de-
 veloped, the former rounding rather sharply at apex. Mesosternal
 lobes acute-angulate produced. Subgenital plate acute-angulate
 emarginate meso-distad, the lateral portions thus formed truncate
 distad, each surmounted by an elongate, straight, very slender,
 cylindrical style, nearly five times as long as its greatest width.
 Femora with dorsal surfaces all showing low, rounded, very broad,
 transverse rugae. Caudal femora very slender. Ventral femoral
 margins armed as follows. Cephalic internal 4 and 5, cephalic
 external 6 and 7, median internal 5 and 6 (some of these minute),
 median external 5 and 6, caudal internal 12, caudal external 13.
General coloration tawny olive, finely mottled with brown and
 immaculate, except for a blackish line on proximal portion of the
 ventro-external margins of the caudal femora, a fleck of the same
 at the distal extremity of each auditory foramen of the cephalic
 tibiae and a number of dark brown flecks on the tegmina.
Length of body 39, length of fastigium of vertex 4.8, length of
 pronotum 9.9, caudal width of pronotum 6.2, length of tegmen 49,
 length of cephalic femur 10.3, length of caudal femur 22, greatest
 width of caudal femur 2.4 mm.
The type is unique. It constitutes the first record for the genus,
 as at present limited, from the Philippines.
EUCONOCEPHALUS Karny
1907. Eueonocephalus Karny, Abh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, III, Heft III,
 pp. 4 and 39.
Karny proposed this name as of subgeneric rank, but it has
 subsequently been given full generic recognition. Here we find
 an array of species, some of which are extremely plastic and many
 of which are exceedingly close in relationship. The treatment by
 Redtenbacher in his "Monographie der Conocephalidarum" is
 superficial, dogmatic and confusing. The work of several earlier
 authors was ignored and a multitude of species described, the
 validity of many being more than doubtful. Even the characters
 used are in many cases of questionable value, particularly those of
 coloration.
It is much to be regretted that Karny, in his "Revisio Cono-
 cephalidarum," made no effort to clear up the numerous Redten-
 bacherian errors. Though insufficient material of Eueonocephalus
238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
is at hand to warrant our undertaking such a revision, it is clear
 to us that the literature on the genus is in quite as great confusion
 as that for the tropical American species of Neoconocephalus. In
 that genus we were able to determine, from thorough study of the
 North American forms found north of Mexico, based on ample
 series, that a multitude of synonyms existed and that the range of
 variation in the widely distributed and very plastic species was a
 feature of the greatest importance, unknown or ignored by both
 Redtenbacher and Karny. In the material of Euconocephalus,
 now under consideration, eight species appear to be recognizable.
 For these we have chosen the apparently best fitting names from
 the long list and have been able to assign to synonymy a number
 of the names there found.
It is to be hoped that more truly revisionary work will be under-
 taken and, should this be done, we are satisfied that the number
 of species of Euconocephalus, placed at thirty-eight by Karny in
 the "Genera Insectorum" (1912), will show very great reduction.
Euconocephalus indicus (Redtenbacher)
1891. Conocephalus indicus Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 408. [cf, 9 : Himalaya [Mountains]; China; Birma; Penang,
 [British Straits Settlements]; Borneo; Java; Sumatra; Peak Downs,
 Australia.]
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 o 71 .
In the present green specimen, the tegmina have a number of
moderately large brown flecks distad.
Euconocephalus picteti (Redtenbacher)
1891. Conocephalus picteti Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, XLI,
 p. 410. [cf: Sumatra; Perak, Malacca.]
Labuan, British North Borneo, 3 cf , 4 9 .
In the present series the fastjgium of the vertex is rather blunt,
 with proximal spine heavy. The tegmina do not have the costal
 margin darkened.
Length of body cf 26.5 to 27.5, 9 30 to 31.8; length of fastigium
 of vertex o" 1.8 to 1.9, 9 1.8 to 2.1 ; length of pronotum rf 1 7 to 7.2,
 9 7 to 7.3; length of tegmen <? 27.3 to 32.5, 9 31.7 to 38; length
 of caudal femur cf 16.8 to 18.9, 9 19.7 to 21; length of ovipositor
 16.3 to 19.2 mm.
 Euconocephalus varius (Walker)
1869. Conocephalus varius Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., II,
p. 320. [&, 9 : China; Hong Kong; Silhet.]
 1869. Conocephalus turpis Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., II,
p. 323. [cf, 9 ; Philippine Islands.]
 1874. Conocephalus thunbergi Stal, Recensio Orth., II, p. 109. [cf , Japan.]
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 239
 Baker), 1 cf , 1 9, (cf brown, 9 green).
Than-Moi, Tonkin, June and July, (from H. Fruhstorfer), 1 cf ,
 (green) .
After careful consideration of the literature and the material at
 hand, we believe the synonymy, indicated above, to be correct.
 Comparison of the present material, as well as a large series of this
 species from Japan, the Loo Choo and Bonin Islands, with a series,
 recognized by us as referable to E. pallidus (Redtenbacher) and so
 recorded in the present paper, shows that the latter insect is ex-
 ceedingly close in relationship. The phylum under consideration
 is clearly subject to great specific individual variation and the
 nomenclature is in a chaotic state.
For the present, we believe varius to be separable from pallidus
 by the average slightly greater fastigial length (though often the
 same in individuals of the two), by the proportionately shorter
 caudal femora and average decidedly shorter ovipositor, which
 very rarely exceeds the caudal femur in length and is usually dis-
 tinctly shorter. The form, general structure and markings are,
 in these insects, the same.
Length of body 80 cf 33 and 35, 9 34.5; length of fastigium of
 vertex cf 2.6 and 2.5, 9 2.4; length of pronotum cf 8.8 and 9,
 9 8.3; length of tegmen cf 38.7 and 41, 9 46.7; length of caudal
 femur cf 21 and 22, 9 22.8; length of ovipositor 24.8 mm. 81
Euconocephalus pallidus (Redtenbacher)
1891. Conccephalus pallidus Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 414. [cf, 9: East Indies; Silhet, [Assam]; Calcutta, [India];
 Ceylon; Birma; Tonkin; Penang and Singapore, [British Straits Settle-
 ments]; Java; Borneo; Philippines.]
 Baker), 1 cf , (green).
 2d 1 , (brown).
Mount Limay, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
 1 cf , (brown).
Iligan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 9,
 (brown).
80 The measurements of the Tonkinese male are given last.
81 We feel obliged to assign this specimen to varius, though in ovipositor length
 it agrees instead with the normal for pallidus. This is the only case in the large
 series of females of varius before us, in which the length of the caudal femur is
 exceeded by that of the ovipositor.
240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf,
Labuan, British North Borneo, 1 cf , 2 9 , (green).
 September, 1901, (Harrison and Hiller), 1 cf , (brown), [A. N. S. P.].
Careful comparison of this series with material of C. varius
 (Walker) shows these species to be very nearly related, as discussed
 under that species. In Redtenbacher's key, pallidus is separated
 from thunbergi Stal ( = varius) by its more slender form and more
 nearly acuminate tegminal apices. These features are shown, by
 the material at hand, to be worthless.
From the localities given in the original description and the final
 comments there made, we believe that more than one species may
 be included, the data on the immature female from the Philippines
 indicating that that specimen is probably referable to varius as
 recognized by us. As a result, it is probable that a single type
 must be selected for pallidus, before that name can be stabilized.
Length of body cf 34.5 to 36.5, 9 37.5 to 38.5; length of fastigium
 of vertex cf 2 to 2.2, 9 2.3 to 2.3; length of pronotum cf 8.7 to
 9.2, 9 8.7 to 8.8; length of tegmen cf 44 to 45.7, 9 50.3 to 52.3;
 length of caudal femur cf 23.8 to 24.5, 9 25.3 to 26.6; length of
 ovipositor 26.8 to 27.1 mm.
Euconocephalus nasutus (Thunberg)
1815. C [onocephalus] nasutus Thunberg, Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Peters-
bourg, V, p. 273. [No locality given.]
 1891. Conocephalus insulanus Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
XLI, p. 416. [ 9 : Borneo; Singapore, [British Straits Settlements].]
 Baker), 2 9 , (brown); June 25, 1921, 1 9 , (green).
 1 cf .
This is the species treated as acuminatus (Fabricius) by Redten-
 bacher and Karny. Those authors failed to note that Locusta
 acuminata Fabricius is a homonym of Gryllus (Tettigonia) acuminata
 Linnaeus, as shown by the reference to Linnaeus given by Fabricius.
The specimens here recorded agree closely with a series from
 the Bonin Islands in the Philadelphia Collections. The majority
 have the costal margins of the tegmina pale throughout, but in a
 few specimens of the latter series a slight darkening is apparent.
 Should the marginal coloration of the tegmina prove of no diag-
 nostic value, as appears very possible, the synonymy of varius
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 241
under nasutus would follow. There appears to be no other safe
 criterion for separating these species as here recognized.
Length of body cf 28.7, 9 34 and 37.5; length of fastigium of
 vertex <? 1.8; 9 2.4 and 2.8; length of pronotum d* 7.8, 9 8.1
 and 8.9; length of tegmen cf 40.4, 9 44.3 and 51.2; length of
 caudal femur <? 19.7, 9 24.7 and 25.7; length of ovipositor 23.7
 and 24.2 mm.
Euconocephalus longiceps (Redtenbacher)
1891. Conocephalus longiceps Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 412. [ d% New Caledonia.]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 o 71 , 3 9, (all green).
These specimens agree closely with  those here recorded as
 E. pallidus (Redtenbacher), except in having a noticeably heavier,
 longer and more truncate fastigium of the vertex, while the ovi-
 positor averages shorter.
Length of body d" 36.8, 9 37 to 40.8; length of fastigium of
 vertex tf 1 3.1, 9 3.2 to 3.7; length of pronotum cf 9.3, 9 8.8 to 9.1;
 length of tegmen cf 42.3; 9 48 to 50.3; length of caudal femur
 d" 24.3, 9 26.8 to 27.2; length of ovipositor 23.1 to 24.3 mm.
Euconocephalus gracilis (Redtenbacher)
1891. Conocephalus gracilis Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien.,
 XLI, p. 415. [d\ 9 ; Penang, [British Straits Settlements]; Java:
 Borneo; Philippine Islands; Caroline Islands; Yap [Island]; Pelew [Island].]
 Baker), 1 9, (brown).
Mount Mak'ling, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker) ,
 1 c? , (brown).
Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker)
 1 9 , (green).
Butuan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 d%
 September, (Harrison and Hiller), 2 c? , 1 9,1 juv. d", (brown).
The insect which we recognize as this species is intermediate in
 form of fastigium of vertex between E. varius (Walker) and E. so-
 brinus (Bolivar) ; this process averages proportionately longer than
 in varius but not as elongate nor as acute as in sobi-inus.
In the present material the tegminal costal margins are immacu-
 late or faintly margined with brown. This feature is clearly
 valueless as a specific factor in gracilis, except that it may be said
 that these margins are sometimes embrowned in the present insect,
 while in other species such coloration never occurs.
242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
It is very possible that gracilis may be referred to synonymy
under sobrinus, when these apparently plastic species are better
Length Length Length Length Length Length
of of of of of caudal of ovi-
body fastigium pronotum tegmen femur positor
Butuan. Philippines 28 2.3 7.7 34.8 18.4
BatuSangkar, Sumatra 2S.5 2.8 8.2 37.3 1S.5
Batu Sangkar. Sumatra 30.5 2.7 7.7 35.8
LosBaiios. Philippines 32 2.9 7.2 41.8 20 20
Surigao, Philippines 34.S 2.8 7.8 41.1 20 18.8
Batu Sangkar. Sumatra 31.5 2.9 7.4 38.5 20 18.3
Euconocephalus sobrinus (Bolivar)
1884. Conocephalus sobrinus Bolivar, Arthropodos Viaje al Pacifico Ins..
 Orth., p. 88. [[probably <?], Java.]
Zamboanga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
Java, (from H. de Saussure), 1 9, (green), [A. X. S. P.].
The male here recorded has the fastigium of the vertex of no
 greater length than in males from Sumatra assigned to E. gracilis
 (Redtenbacher). In the present male, however, it is distinctly
 more slender and fully as acuminate as in the Javanese female
 before us.
Length of body c? 30, 9 34.2; length of fastigium of vertex
cf 2.8, 9 3.7; length of pronotum c? 7.3, 9 7.8; length of tegmen
c? 34, 9 41.7; length of caudal femur <? 17.8, 9 21; length of
ovipositor 20.1 mm.
CONOCEPHALIXAE
CONOCEPHALUS (Thunberg)
Chloroxiphidiox new subgenus
In 1915, Rehn and Hebard published a key to the subgenera of
 the genus Conocephalus}- Little work has been done on the genus
 from that portion of the World here under consideration and we
 are not surprised to find an undescribed subgenus represented by
 certain species from Australasia and Malaysia.
Type of subgexts  Conocephalus (Chloroxiphidion) javanicus
 Redtenbacher).
Prosternum bispinose. Caudal tibiae armed at distal extremity
 with two pairs of spurs, the ventral pair being absent. 83 Ventral
82 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., XLI, p. 226.
83 The dorsal pair of spurs are, moreover, greatly reduced, no larger than the
 spines of the dorsal margins of the caudal tibiae and only differentiated from
 them by having a basal socket.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 243
margins of cephalic and median tibiae armed with five to six
 (normally six) well spaced spines. Male subgenital plate with
 distal margin more or less decidedly truncate, with no decided
 emargination or production; small, slender, filiform styles present
 disto-laterad.
The difference in number of caudal tibial spurs separates this
 subgenus from the subgenus Xiphidion Serville.
Of the material here studied, the species modestus (Redtenbacher)
 and javanicus (Redtenbacher) alone belong to the present subgenus.
Conocephalus iChloroxiphidion) modestus (Redtenbacher)
1891. Xiphidium modestum Redtenbacher, Yerh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien.,
 XLI, p. 510, pi. IV, fig. 86. [cf, 9 ; Cape York, Sidney and Peak Downs,
 Australia; New Caledonia; Lord Howe's Island; Fiji Islands; Ovalaua,
 New Guinea; Friendly Islands; Samoa.]
Queensland, Australia, 1 cf.
Conocephalus (Chloroxiphidiom javanicus (Redtenbacher)
1891. Xiphidium javanicum Redtenbacher, Yerh. Zojl.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 526. [ 9 , Java.]
Pasoeroean, eastern Java, (determined as javanicum and pre-
 sented by Saussure), 2 d\ [A. N. S. P.].
Length of body 11 and 10.2, length of pronotum 2.8 and 2.8,
 length of tegmen 6.8 and 6.9. median width of tegmen 1.8 and 1.8,
 length of caudal femur 9.7 and 9.9 mm.
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) affinig (Redtenbacher)
1981. Xiphidiutn affine Redtenbacher, Yerh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, XLI,
 p. 513. [d>, 9 : Philippine [Islands]: Aru Islands; Samoa; Ovalaua,
 [New Guinea]; Fiji Islands.]
Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine. Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
 lcf.H.
This is a very plain species. The dorso-internal node on the
 male cercus, proximad of the heavy median spine, serves readily
 to distinguish this sex of affinis from the males of the other species
 here recorded.
The ventro-external margins only of the caudal femora are armed,
 with the following number of spines in the present pair; cf 2 and 3,
 9 2 and 3.
Length of body c? 13, 9 13.7; length of pronotum tf 1 2.8, 9 3;
 length of tegmen d 1 15.9, 9 15; length of caudal femur cf 12,
 9 11.8; length of ovipositor 9 mm.
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) maculatus (Le Gouillou)
1S41. Xiphidion maculatum Le Gouillou. Rev. Zooi., 1841, p. 294. [Man-
kassar (= Macassar), [Celebes Island, Moluccas].]
 1871. Xiphidium sinense Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., V,
Suppl. p. 35. [of: unknown locality; Hong Kong, [China].].
244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The presence of a series of maculatus from the Province of Kwang-
 Tung, China, in a recently received collection, indicates that this
 is probably the most abundant species of Conocephalus in that
 region. As Walker's description agrees in all respects with this
 material we feel justified in indicating the above synonymy.
2 cf.
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf ,
In addition to the suffused and interrupted brown band between
 the median and ulnar veins of the tegmina, this species is distinctive
 in having the limbs thickly supplied with flecks of mummy brown.
 The tegmina are not heavily marked in any of the present series,
 the specimens from Mount Makiling being so recessive that the
 tegminal suffusions are weakly defined. All are macropterous,
 with tegmina extending slightly beyond the apices of the caudal
 femora.
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) laetus (Redtenbacher)
1891. Xiphidium laetum Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,XLI,
 p. 514, pi. IV, fig. 87. [ 9 , northern Australia.]
 1 cf.
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 cf , 1 9 .
The Philippine material differs from the original description in
 lacking the dorsal brown stripe of head and pronotum, the Moluccan
 pair in being decidedly larger. These specimens agree so closely
 in all other features that we feel fully justified in considering them
 conspecific.
We note the following features, not mentioned by Redtenbacher.
 The antennae appear closely and minutely subannulate, rather
 than "remote fusco-annulatae." The ovipositor shows a very
 faintly sigmoid tendency and is broader than normal in the genus;
 thus of the same type as in the Japanese C. gladiatus (Redten-
 bacher), but much less elongate. Genicular lobes of caudal femora
 strongly bispinose. Caudal tibiae distad with dorso-internal spur
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 245
greatly reduced, no larger than and scarcely to be distinguished
 from the dorso-internal spines.
Length of body & 15 and 18.8, 9 18.3 and 23.1; length of pro-
 notum cf 3.3 and 4, 9 3.8 and 4.6; length of tegmen c? 20.4 and 24,
 9 22.8 and 29.8; length of caudal femur & 13.8 and 17, 9 15.8
 and 17.8; length of ovipositor 17.2 and 18.7 mm.
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) borneensis (Redtenbacher)
1891. Xiphidium borneense Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 514. [d\ 9; Borneo.]
Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F.
 Baker), 1 cf .
This insect appears to be very close to C. laetus (Redtenbacher),
 differing in the much shortened organs of flight and dark genicular
 areas of the caudal femora.
In the specimen here recorded the caudal femora have the
 genicular areas tipped with a suffusion of brown, rather than
 "apice extremo nigro-nitido." The male stridulating area is
 proportionately smaller and less elongate than in males of laetus
 before us, while the caudal tibiae have the dorso-internal spur
 conspicuous and decidedly larger than any of the dorso-internal
 spines. So close does it agree in other respects with laetus, that,
 were these features not of decided diagnostic value, we would have
 considered it a brachypterous example of that species.
The very narrow convex callosity of the pronotal lateral lobes
 in this species and laetus is slightly narrower than in the related
 C. glacliatus (Redtenbacher).
Length of body 16.8, length of pronotum 3.9, length of tegmen 13,
 length of caudal femur 14.3 mm.
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) longipennis (Haan)
1842. L[ocusta] (Xiphidium) longipennis Haan, Verh. Nat. Geschied.
Nederl, oversee, bezitt., Zool., Ins., p. 189. [<?, 9 : Padang, [Sumatra];
Banjermassing, [Borneo].]
 1877. X[iphidium] spinipes Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh., 1877,
No. 10, p. 47. [ 9 , Philippine Islands.]
 1891. Xiphidium longicorne Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
XLI, p. 513. [d\ 9 : Java; Borneo; Pelew [Island]; Yap [Island]; East
Indies; Raratonga [Island]; Caroline [Islands].]
The female before us from Los Bafios agrees fully with Stal's
 inadequate description of spinipes and we believe that examination
 of the type will establish definitely this synonymy, first indicated
 with a query by Redtenbacher.
Redtenbacher described longicorne, overlooking the fact that
 macropterism and brachypterism as well as variation in size
246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
occurred in many species of the genus, this resulting in other
 synonyms by that author in the same paper. That longipennis
 is a very widely distributed species is an established fact, but
 Redtenbacher may easily have confused individuals of other
 species in his series listed under longicorne and we here designate
 the type locality for that name as Borneo.
 Baker), 1 9 .
i a>.
Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 2 cf , 2 9 .
 September, (Harrison and Hiller), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 1 d".
A single pair from Sandakan are brachypterous. The male from
 Singapore has the organs of flight somewhat reduced. The series
 shows marked size variation, as follows.
Measurements {in millimeters)
Length of Length of Length of Length of Length of
 cf body pronotum tegrnen caudal femur ovipositor
Mount Makiling 17 3.3 20.5 15
Sandakan 14.3 3.2 14 13.5
Sandakan 15 3.1 18.5 14
Singapore 16 84 3.5 19 14.5
Los Banos 20.2 3.9 24 17.8 17
Sandakan 15.5 84 3.7 15.1 14.8 15.6
Sandakan 15.8 3.7 21 16.4 15.2
Batu Sangkar 17.5 3.8 21.8 16.2 16.5
In the present series the ventro-external margin of the caudal
 femora is armed with from five to nine spines, the most frequent
 number being six.
The following features have hitherto not been given. Male
 ultimate tergite weakly bilobate distad. Male cerci rather slender
 throughout, the medio-internal tooth not greatly swollen at its
 base, the apical portion with dorsal surface declivent and weakly
 concave to its sharply rounded apex. Ovipositor straight or show-
 ing a very faint indication of curvature dorsad. Female subgenital
 plate with median portion of distal margin concave-emarginate,
 this plate tightly embracing the base of the ovipositor.
84 The body is shrivelled in this specimen.
1922] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 247
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) melas (Haan)
1842. L[ocusla\ {Xiphidium) melaena Haan, Verh. Nat. Geschied. Nederl.
oversee, bezitt., Zool., Ins., p. 189. [d\ 9 ; Java.]
 1891. Xiphidium nigro-geniculatum Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges.
Wien, XLI, p. 511. [<?, Borneo.]
There is scarcely any doubt that Redtenbacher has described a
 recessively colored specimen of the species as nigro-geniculatum.
Borneo, 1 cf.
Singapore, British Straits Settlements, (from C. F. Baker), 2 cf .
This handsome and strikingly colored species is now known to
 have a very wide distribution. A considerable unrecorded series
 is before, us from Japan and China.
In the specimens here recorded, the ventro-external margins of
the caudal femora are armed with two to four small spines. The
measurements of the Singapore males are as follows; length of
body 14.7 and 15.2, length of pronotum 3.3 and 3.7, length of
tegmen 13.9 and 14.5, length of caudal femur 12.7 and 13.8 mm.
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) formosus (Redtenbacher)
1891. Xiphidium formosum Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XLI, p. 530. [d", 9 ; eastern Java.]
Pasoeroean, eastern Java, (determined as formosus and presented
 by Saussure), 1 d\ 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.].
The greatly reduced tegmina and broad oblique suffusion of
 brown on the enlarged portion of the caudal femora readily dis-
 tinguish this species from C. melas (Haan), to which it is closely
 related. The ventro-external femoral margins are armed with
 one to three minute spines in the pair before us.
Conocephalus (Xiphidion) vestitus (Redtenbacher)
1891. Xiphidium vestitum Redtenbacher, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
XLI, p. 529. [cf, Philippine [Islands].]
 1920. Conocephalus sannio Karny, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, LXX, p. 27.
 [cf, 9 ; Los Banos, Philippine Islands.]
Karny apparently overlooked the description of vestitus, the
 name sannio being based on material, apparently identical, except
 in being slightly darker in coloration than Redtenbacher's type.
Los Banos, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, 1917, 1 9 ,
 [A. N. S. P.]; (from C. F. Baker), 1 cf , 1 9 .
Tnis is one of the handsomest species of the genus, its coloration
distinctive and strikingly contrasted. Length of body; c? 11.5,
9 12 and 12.5; length of pronotum d 1 3.4, 9 3.7 and 3.9; length
of tegmen c? 5.3, 9 2.7 and 2.7 85 ; length of caudal femur cf 14,
9 13.7 and 14.8; length of ovipositor 6.7 and 7 mm.
85 The least exposed dorsal length is, however, only 1.7 mm.
248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Though apparently belonging near C. melas (Haan), the species
 has been referred by Karny to Conocephalus in its most limited
 sense (the subgenus Conocephalus as recognized by us), due to the
 absence of prosternal spines. We find that the prosternal spines
 are well developed in melas (as is normal in the subgenus Xiphidion),
 much smaller in C. formosus (Redtenbacher) and reduced to mere
 tuberculations at the latero-caudal angles of the prosternum in
 vestitus.
As a result we do not believe this character can be given higher
 than specific diagnostic significance in the present case and that
 the subgenus Xiphidion will fall as a synonym of the subgenus
 Conocephalus, unless other characters exist to warrant its separation.
Further study, however, we believe necessary before final action
 can be taken.
LISTROSCELINAE
Karny has recently described a genus, Cecidophaga, 86 related to
 the genera discussed below and which, in our opinion, should
 unhesitatingly be referred to the Listroscelinae. He has again
 dogmatically followed the assignments of Brunner and is confused
 by the fact that that author placed Teratura in the Conocephalinae
 (as at present understood), but the genus Xiphidiopsis in the
 Listroscelinae. This is one of the major reasons why Karny feels
 unable to assign Cecidophaga to a definite subfamily.
We feel certain that Teratura and Xiphidiopsis are related
 genera of the Listroscelinae. The spines of the cephalic tibiae
 are not unusually elongate in certain species of these genera, a
 character separating most of the Listroscelinae from other sub-
 families. The general structure, however, shows such decided
 similarity to that of species of other unquestioned Listroscelids,
 that to separate them from that subfamily would be a violation
 of common sense. In fact both types of spination can be found
 in different species of the genus Xiphidiopsis itself.
Having modified the characterization of the Listroscelinae to
 cover the genera Teratura, Xiphidiopsis, Cecidophaga and Lipo-
 tacies, little of the confusion encountered by recent workers remains.
To do this admittedly weakens the distinction between the
 related subfamilies, but it is our experience that, as the species of
 the World become better known, the impossibility of separating
86 Treubia, I, p. 292, (1921).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 249
subfamilies, on anything like the clean-cut lines recognized in the
 past, is more and more realized.
ALLOTERATURA new genus
This genus is erected to include two Philippine species recently
 described by Karny as members of the genus, Teraiura and three
 new species here described.
It is apparently closely related to Teraiura, differing strikingly
 in the extremely short, conical last segment of the maxillary palpi. 87
We cannot follow Redtenbacher and Karny in placing these
 genera in the subfamily Conocephalinae as now understood. The
 very close agreement in general structure with the genus Xiphidi-
 opsis offers convincing proof that they should instead be referred
 to the Listroscelinae. Though members of that subfamily, they
 are aberrant in having the tibiae armed with shorter spines than
 in any of the other genera there included.
Genotype.  Alloteratura mindanao new species.
Vertex shorter and narrower than first antennal joint, narrowly
 triangular with bluntly rounded apex, the dorsal surface longi-
 tudinally very weakly sulcate or subsulcate. Maxillary palpi
 very elongate but with last joint very short, broader than long,
 strongly conical. Pronotum much as in Xiphidiopsis, strongly
 produced caudad with margin there convex, dorsal surface weakly
 convex, lateral lobes with humeral sinus very weak to decided.
 Lateral foramen of thorax largely concealed in males, visible from
 latero-caudal point in females but never large and fully exposed as
 in Xiphidiopsis. Tegmina and wings fully developed to moderately
 reduced; stridulating field of male tegmina covered by production
 caudad of pronotum. Prosternum unarmed. Male genitalia
 showing very great specific differentiation, ultimate tergite produced
 with caudal margin concave. High specialization often found in a
 large plate above the subgenital plate and between the cerci,
 which is developed from the ultimate tergite ventro-distad on each
 side; thus the ultimate tergite forms a sort of yoke, a development
 previously unknown to us. Female with genitalia much as in
 Xiphidiopsis; cerci showing some swelling meso-distad; ovipositor
 curving gently dorsad, with margins unarmed. Cephalic coxae
 armed with a long spine. Femora unarmed, genicular lobes
 rounded (except in sandakanae, in which species those of the caudal
 femora are unispinose). Cephalic tibiae with apert auditory fora-
 mina, the ventral margins armed with four internal and three or
 four external, relatively short spines (the longest one and one-half
87 These organs were not described or figured by Redtenbacher, but are shown
 by Karny's figure to be of the normal elongate type in the genotype, T. monslrosa
 Redtenbacher (Gen. Ins., Orth., Conocephalinae, Fasc. 135, pi. I, fig. 1, {1912).)
250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
to nearly twice the width of the tibia at that point) and a pair of
 very small distal spines. Median tibiae tapering meso-distad
 with distal portion slender, ventral margins armed with five (rarely
 six) external and three or four internal spines and with a pair of
 very small distal spines. Caudal tibiae with three pairs of short
 distal spurs; ventral margins supplied with numerous short and
 heavy spines, dorsal margins supplied distad with a few very small
 and slender spines.
In addition to the three new species here described, we assign
 to the present genus the two Philippine species xiphidiopsis and
 simplex, recently described by Karny as members of the genus
 Teratura. ss It is very possible that the Japanese Teratura suzuki
 Matsumura and Shiraki belongs neither to that or the present
 genus, but to the genus Xiphidiopsis.
Alloteratura penangica new species. Plate XIX, figures 1, 2 and 3.
From the other known species of the genus the present may be
 distinguished by its smaller size, pronotum with humeral sinus
 very weak and reduction in the organs of flight.
The male before us differs further, from the known males of
 other species, in the distinctive but much less highly specialized
 genitalia.
Type: <f ; Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements. (From
C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 820.]
In addition to the features given in the generic description, the
 following are diagnostic for this species. Size small, form slender.
 Vertex very weakly sulcate. Pronotum showing somewhat less
 convexity than in, A. xiphidiopsis (Karny). Lateral lobes of
 pronotum shallow, with ventro-cephalic angle very weakly in-
 dicated, the margin convex to the ventral angle, which is broadly
 rounded at more than ninety degrees, caudal margin strongly
 oblique, straight except at humeral sinus where it is broadly and
 shallowly concave. Tegmina and wings showing considerable
 reduction, narrowed and nearly reaching apices of caudal femora.
 Ultimate tergite produced, embracing cereal bases, caudal margin
 weakly concave laterad to these and weakly concave above these,
 deeply concave between these. Cerci small and simple, moder-
 ately stout proximad with a short dorso-internal lamella, thence
 tapering and curving inward, then straight to the acute apex, the
 external margin curving to the straight internal margin to form
 this. Above the subgenital plate is seen a thick trapezoidal plate,
 extending caudad an equal distance (the yoke portion of the ul-
 timate tergite). Subgenital plate trapezoidal in produced portion,
 a longitudinal carina on each side terminating at the latero-caudal
M Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, LXX, p. 23, (1920).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 251
angles in a weakly decurved, socketed style, three times as long
 as its basal width. Femoral genicular lobes bluntly rounded, tibial
 spination normal.
General coloration immaculate, buffy; probably a delicate, light
 green in life. Eyes dark brown. Antennae weakly suffused with
 brown at the intersection of each joint, a few of these widely spaced,
 much heavier, giving a subannulate facies.
Length of body 8.7, length of pronotum 3.8, greatest total width
 of pronotum 2.3, length of pronotal lateral lobe 2.9, depth of pro-
 notal lateral lobe 1.4, length of tegmen 9.2. width of tegmen 2.1,
 length of cephalic femur 3.6, length of caudal femur 9.2 mm.
Alloteratura bakeri new species. Plate XIX, figures 4 and 5.
Though instantly recognizable by the distinctive male genitalia,
 this sex of the present species agrees very closely in other respects
 with a male of A. xiphidiopsis (Karny) before us. In the present
 male the only other differences are seen to lie in the broader,
 blunter vertex which is less distinctly sulcate, the less ample pro-
 notum with proportionately slightly shorter lateral lobes and the
 antennae which show no trace of annulation.
Type: cf ; Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 821.]
The following characters are considered diagnostic for this
 species, in addition to those noted in the generic description. Size
 and form medium for the genus. Vertex broader and blunter than
 in A. xiphidiopsis, flattened dorsad and showing a linear subsul-
 cation. Pronotum very slightly less convex than in A . xiphidiopsis.
 Lateral lobes of pronotum with ventro-cephalic and ventro-caudal
 angles weakly indicated by broad convexities, the latter weakest
 ventral angle rounded at ninety degrees, caudal margin with
 humeral sinus deep, rounded obtuse-angulate. Tegmina and wings
 fully developed. Ultimate tergite moderately produced, its distal
 margin showing on each side two weak convexities, between which
 it is dorsad broadly and weakly concave. Cerci very heavy,
 swollen and irregular in contour, proximal three-fifths nearly as
 broad as long, lamellate dorsad and swollen in ventral portion,
 thence the cerci are cylindrical, produced dorsad, slanting inward,
 scarcely tapering in proximal half, weakly tapering in distal half
 to tin rounded and attingent apices. Mesad between the cerci
 the yoke of the ultimate tergite projects caudad considerably
 beyond the subgenital plate, its angulate apex is hooded with dorsal
 surface medio-longitudinally sulcate, the ventral surface deplanate.
 Subgenital plate with lateral margins broadly convex-convergent
 to the narrowly truncate apex; the surface, on each side, just before
 the apex, raisad and bearing a small, weakly decurved style, dis-
 tinctly less than three times as long as its greatest width. Femoral
 genicular lobes bluntly rounded, tibial spination normal.
252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
General coloration buffy, the tegmina distad pale green ; probably
 uniform pale green in life. Eyes dark brown. Antennae immac-
 ulate. Pronotum with a band of ochraceous-orange defining on
 each side the lateral margins of the disk, this continued as a pos-
 tocular band on the head.
Length of body 11.2, length of pronotum 4.8, greatest total
 width of pronotum 2.8, length of lateral lobe of pronotum 2.3,
 depth of lateral lobe of pronotum 2.1, length of tegmen 16.9,
 width of tegmen 2.8, length of cephalic femur 3.6, length of caudal
 femur 10.7 mm.
The unique male is before us.
Alloteratura xiphidiopsis (Karny) Plate XIX, figures 6 and 7.
1920. Teratura xiphidiopsis Karny, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, LXX, p. 23.
 [ 9 ; Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands.]
 1 cf , 1 9.
The previously unknown male of this species is briefly compared
 with that of A. bakeri under that species.
In the present pair the ventro-cephalic angle of the lateral lobes
 is very weakly indicated in the male, obsolete in the female. The
 male genitalia show the highest specialization known for the species
 of Alloteratura. Cerci heavy and irregular in contour, stout in
 proximal third to a dorso-internal node, median third tapering in
 vertical section with dorso-external margin sharply angulate, distal
 third with margins curving weakly to the apex and dorsal margin
 sharp; the cerci curve inward and upward with some angulation
 indicated at each section described above and embrace the large
 yoked portion of the ultimate tergite. This projects mesad above
 the cerci as a large, vertical, transverse, rounded lobe and is pro-
 duced ventrad beyond the cerci and apex of the subgenital plate
 as a stout cone, with apical portion lamellate, truncate and directed
 ventrad. Subgenital plate with lateral margins weakly convex
 convergent, a longitudinal carina on each side terminating at the
 latero-caudal angle and there supplied with a slightly decurved
 style, three times as long as its basal width; between the cerci the
 plate is bilobate, these small projections forming a broad V-shaped
 emargination mesad.
Length of body cf 11.2, 9 9.8; length of pronotum cf 5.6, 9 3.9;
 total width of pronotum cf 3.1, 9 2.6; length of pronotal lateral
 lobe cf 2.7, 9 2.3; depth of pronotal lateral lobe cf 2.3, 9 1.8;
 length of tegmen cf 18, 9 16.2; width of tegmen cf 2.8, 9 2.3;
 length of cephalic femur cf 4, 9 3.9; length of caudal femur
 cf 11.3, 9 10.7; length of ovipositor 6.5 mm.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 253
Alloteratura sandakanae new species. Plate XIX, figures 8 and 9.
Though females alone are before us, the present insect may be
 readily separated by the dark vertex, antennae and pronotal disk,
 the denticulate genicular lobes of the caudal femora and average
 greater number of ventro-external spines of the median tibiae.
 The ovipositor is longer than in any of the species of the genus
 of which females are known.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 822.]
Size medium, form comparatively slender. Vertex normal, with
 dorsal surface showing a subobsolete linear sulcation. Pronotum
 narrower than in females of A. xiphidiopsis (Karny); lateral lobes
 shorter, cephalic angle broadly convex, ventral angle rounded at
 ninety degrees, caudal angle obsolete, humeral sinus distinct,
 obtuse-angulate. Tegmina and wings fully developed, longer than
 in A. xiphidiopsis. Ultimate tergite, as in females of that species,
 deeply concave above base of ovipositor. Cerci showing, as in
 A. xiphidiopsis, a meso-distal thickening but proportionately
 more slender, then tapering to the acute apex. Ovipositor slender,
 weakly curved dorsad, tapering to the acute apex. Subgenital
 plate shorter than wide, convex, sub-bilobate and showing a very
 weak median emargination. Genicular lobes of cephalic and me-
 dian femora bluntly rounded, of caudal femora each with a single
 heavy spine. Tibial spines as normal in the genus. 83
General coloration clay color. Eyes dark brown. Antennae
 chestnut brown, heavily overlaid with black proximad, this be-
 coming less extensive distad and only occupying the intersections
 of the joints. Vertex and occiput blackish brown, this continued
 as a dorsal suffusion of chestnut brown on the disk of the pronotum.
 Wings suffused with brown. Ovipositor tawny.
The type measurements are given first. Length of body 11 and
 12.5, length of pronotum 3.5 and 3.9, total width of pronotum
 2.3 and 2.5, length of lateral lobe of pronotum 2 and 2.1, depth of
 lateral lobe of pronotum 1.8 and 1.9, length of tegmen 17.6 and
 18.7, width of tegmen 2.3 and 2.6, length of cephalic femur 3.3 and
 4, length of caudal femur 10.5 and 11.7, length of ovipositor 8.8
 and 9.8 mm.
In addition to the type, a female paratype, bearing the same
 data, is before us.
XIPHIDIOPSIS Redtenbacher
Genotype, selected by Kirby in 1906, X. fallax Redtenbacher.
 We here restrict this genus to the species having the auditory
 foramina of the cephalic tibiae apert on both faces.
89 Except that, in the type, only one of the ventro-external margins of the
 median tibiae bears six (and one distal) spines.
254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
As in Alloteratura, a single species is before us which has the
 genicular lobes of the caudal femora unispinose. Redtenbacher
 and Karny's characterization of the genus must, therefore, be
 modified in this respect. The subgenital plate in the female sex
 shows great specific differences. The cephalic coxae are armed
 with a spine in all of the species before us except the aberrant
 gemmicula and aglaia here described. In the species before us the
 longest cephalic tibial spines exceed the width of the tibia at their
 bases by one and one-half to slightly over four times.
Xiphidiopsis dicera new species. Plate XIX, figures 10, 11 and 12.
This insect is distinguished in both sexes by the darkened and
 rounded tips of the genicular lobes of the caudal femora.
In the male, the ultimate tergite is produced mesad in a small
 two-horned process, the cerci are flattened, weakly incurved, with
 a blunt dorso-internal projection proximad.
In the female, the subgenital plate is of the same type as found
 in X. lita Hebard (described as probably adventive in Hawaii),
 but the triangularly produced median portion is more ample, with
 apex more acute.
The cephalic tibial spines are longer than in any other species
 before us, those of the males being somewhat longer than those of
 the females at hand.
Type: cT; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 824.]
Size rather small for the genus, form slender. Vertex showing
 a subobsolete linear sulcation. Last joint of maxillary palpus
 equal in length to fourth, enlarging suddenly near the transverse,
 truncate apex. Pronotum elongate, with dorsal surface very
 feebly convex, the metazona produced caudad and equal in length
 to the prozona; cephalic margin of lateral lobes with ventro-
 cephalic angle rounded and broadly obtuse-angulate, margin ven-
 trad more strongly rounded, caudal margin weakly concave at
 humeral sinus and slightly more decidedly concave opposite the
 very large, apert, thoracic foramen. Tegmina and wings fully
 developed. Ultimate tergite moderately produced, its caudal
 margin shallowly concave between cereal bases, its surface mesad
 raised and produced caudad in a pair of cylindrical projections,
 each slightly over twice as long as its basal width, which diverge
 and form a right-angle between their bases. Cerci moderately
 stout, flattened in distal portions and twisting so that meso-distad
 the flattened surfaces are oblique and distad they are vertical;
 internal surface with a large, flattened, blunt tooth at end of
 proximal third, this margin showing a feeble convexity in median
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 255
portion of section beyond this tooth; cerci straight and scarcely-
 taper to that point, thence evenly recurved and show weak con-
 vergence of the lateral margins to the bluntly bidentate apices.
 Subgenital plate very small, with a median transverse ridge, beyond
 this with lateral margins straight and parallel to the slightly de-
 curved styles, each of which is nearly four times as long as its basal
 width, separated by a distance slightly greater than the length
 of one of these, the subgenital plate briefly produced between
 these and strongly transverse, trapezoidal. Cephalic coxae armed.
 Genicular lobes of all femora bluntly rounded. Cephalic tibiae
 very slender, except at the auditory foramina, which portion is
 decidedly swollen, ventral margins armed with four pairs and one
 external (or rarely five pairs) of elongate spines and with a distal
 pair of minute spines. These spines are unusually long for the
 genus, the longest slightly over four times the width of the tibia
 at that point. Median tibiae ventrad with five pairs of shorter
 spines and with a minute pair of distal spines; thickened in proximal
 two-thirds, decidedly more slender in distal third. Caudal tibiae
 armed as described for Alloteratura on page 250.
Allotype: 9 ; Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements.
Agrees closely with male, differing as follows. Size very slightly
 larger. Production of pronotum decidedly shorter, the metazona
 two-thirds as long as the prozona; lateral lobes with concavity of
 caudal margin opposite thoracic foramen less than at humeral sinus.
 Supra-anal plate small, subtriangular with apex very broadly round-
 ed, impressed meso-proximad. Cerci cylindrical, widest meso-proxi-
 mad, thence tapering to their acute apices, slightly incurved and
 hardly three times as long as greatest width. Ovipositor elongate,
 swollen proximad, distal portion curved very weakly dorsad with
 margins unarmed; dorsal valves acute at apex, ventral valves
 with a very faint concavity of ventral margin just before apex,
 with apex itself rounded and decurved. Subgenital plate of the
 same type as in lita, differing in being supplied with stiff hairs,
 while the produced, triangular, median portion is much larger,
 leaving only brief convex lateral portions, the produced portion
 only half as long as its basal width, with apex sharply rounded.
General coloration pale yellowish brown, probably immaculate
 light green in life. The genicular lobes of the caudal femora are
 tipped with blackish brown, this apparently of specific diagnostic
 importance. The intersection of the antennal segments are weakly
 embrowned to different degrees. The tegmina show the sutural
 margin faintly tinged with brown, as are the areolae toward that
 margin.
The measurements of the type are given first for the male sex,
 those of the allotype first for the female sex. Length of body cf 11
 and 9 (greatly shrivelled), 9 11.5 and 11.3; length of pronotum
 cT 4.1 and 3.9, 9 3.6 and 3.4; greatest total width of pronotum
256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
d" 2.1 and 2, 9 2.2 and 2.3; length of pronotal lateral lobe <? 2.2
 and 2.1, 9 2.2 and 2.1; depth of pronotal lateral lobe d* 1.7 and
1.7, 9 1.8 and 1.8; length of tegmen cT 17.4 and 17, 9 18 and 18.7;
 width of tegmen d 1 2 and 2, 9 2.1 and 2.2; length of cephalic femur
cT 4.3 and 4.3, 9 4.2 and 4.2; length of caudal femur J 1 10 and 10,
9 10.2 and 10.8; length of ovipositor 8.1 and 8 mm.
In additional to the described pair, a paratypic male, bearing
 the same data as the type, and a paratypic female bearing the same
 data as the allotype, are before us.
Xiphidiopsis cryptosticta new species. Plate XIX, figure 13.
This species has the tegmina marked faintly with suffused spots
 of brown, the genicular lobes of the cephalic and caudal femora
 suffused distad with brown, the latter unispinose.
In the female sex, which alone is known, the subgenital plate is
 broad, the disto-lateral portions with margin broadly convex and
 the median portion with distal margin concave. This is a very
 different type from that developed in X. lita Hebard and X. dicera
 described above. It is a much more simple development of the
 type found in the very distinct X. drepanophora described below.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 826.]
Compared with the female sex of dicera, the present insect is
 found to show the following diagnostic characters. Size medium,
 form slender. Vertex showing a weak sulcation, which in basal
 portion broadens into a shallow depression. Last joint of maxil-
 lary palpus equal in length to fourth. Pronotum with metazonal
 portion about two-thirds as long as prozonal portion; lateral lobes
 with margin curving evenly to ventral angle, which is more strongly
 rounded, concavities of caudal margin opposite humeral sinus and
 thoracic foramen very weak and of equal degree. Supra-anal plate
 small, shield-shaped, with apex rounded and dorsal surface weakly
 concave. Cerci of same type as in dicera but more elongate, nearly
 four times as long as greatest width, with apical portion very slender.
 Ovipositor as in dicera, except that the distal extremity of the
 ventral valves is even more weakly specialized. Subgenital plate
 distinctive; not narrowing to the distal extremity, latero-distad
 with margins broadly convex, mesad with distal margin concave;
 surface transversely shallowly concave meso-proximad and shal-
 lowly concave in disto-lateral portions. Limbs more elongate
 than in dicera. Genicular lobes of cephalic and median femora
 bluntly rounded, of caudal femora unispinose. Cephalic tibiae
 armed with the same number of spines as in dicera, these, however,
 much shorter, the longest slightly over twice (in one paratype
 varying to slightly over three times) the tibial width at that
 point. Median tibiae as in dicera, except that the internal of the
 proximal pair of spines is often missing.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 257
General coloration pale yellowish brown, probably light green
 in life. The genicular lobes of the cephalic and caudal femora are
 tipped with a suffusion of dark brown, these markings not as
 decided or as conspicuous as in dicera. The intersections of the
 antennal segments are strongly embrowned, at intervals being
 stronger and forming distinct annuli. Tegmina with sutural
 margins faintly embrowned and with areolae toward this margin
 forming a number of vague brown spots.
Length of body (females) 12.2, 90 11.4 and 13; length of pronotum
 4, 3.9 and 4.2; total width of pronotum 2.2, 2.2 and 2.3; length of
 pronotal lateral lobe 2.7, 2.6 and 2.7; depth of pronotal lateral
 lobe 2, 1.9 and 2; length of tegmen 20, 18.5 and 19.3; width of
 tegmen 2.3, 2.2 and 2.3; length of cephalic femur 5.7, 5.6 and 5.8;
 length of caudal femur 13.2, 12.8 and 12.8; length of ovipositor
 8.7, 8 and 8.5 mm.
Two paratypic females, bearing the same data as the type, are
Xiphidiopsis drepanophora new species. Plate XIX, figure 14; plate XX, figures 1, 2,
 3 and 4.
This is the first species of the present genus known to us which,
 in the male sex, has the ultimate tergite produced latero-ventrad
 into a specialized projection between the cerci, thus forming a sort
 of yoke.
The genitalia for both sexes are highly distinctive.
Type: d* ; Kolambugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From
 C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 825.]
Size large for the genus, form slender but comparatively broad
 for the genus. Vertex weakly but distinctly sulcate. Last joint
 of maxillary palpus equal in length to fourth. Pronotum elongate,
 the metazona produced caudad and slightly exceeding the prozona
 in length, its surface slightly more convex than in X. dicera here
 described. Pronotal lateral lobes as in X. cryptosticta here de-
 scribed, except that the concavity of the caudal margin is very
 slightly stronger than that opposite the thoracic foramen. Teg-
 mina and wings fully developed. Ultimate tergite triangularly
 produced with apex bi-mammate, the apices of these each forming
 a blunt and decurved denticulation. Supra-anal plate concealed.
 Cercus moderately stout, extending to apex of subgenital plate,
 there suddenly doubled-in upon itself to near base, thence with
 distal portion curving broadly inward, scythe-like., with acute apex
 projecting on opposite side of body. Above the subgenital plate
 and between it and the scythe-like portions of the cerci the large
 yoke of the ultimate tergite projects upward and extends beyond
 the apex of the ultimate tergite; this process is medio-longitudinally
 carinate ventrad opposite the distal emargination of the subgenital
411
The measurements of the type are given first.
258 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
plate, it then shows a roundly elevated U-shaped ridge, above which
 the surface is raised in a rounded Y-shaped ridge, the apices rounded
 and projecting, while dorsad between these the surface is deeply
 concave, with dorsal margin bilobate beneath the bifid apex of the
 ultimate tergite. Subgenital plate medio-longitudinally subsul-
 cate, lateral margins broadly convex to very slender apices, between
 which the distal margin is U-emarginate, these lateral apices Sur-
 mounted by slender tapering styles, each about three times as
 long as its basal width. Limbs and their armament much as in
 cryptosticta, except that the genicular lobes of all the femora are
 bluntly rounded. Longest spine of cephalic tibiae slightly over
 twice the tibial width at that point.
Allotype: 9 ; Dapitan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From
 C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection.]
Agrees closely with male, differing as follows. Production of
 pronotum caudad decidedly shorter, the metazona three-quarters
 as long as the prozona. Supra-anal plate and cerci much as in
 cryptosticta. Ovipositor more elongate than in that species, the
 apex of the ventral valves much as in dicera. Subgenital plate
 medio-longitudinally subcarinate, distal third broadly angulate
 emarginate with margins of this emargination feebly concave, 91
 the lateral angles thus formed nearly as long as their basal width,
 their apices sharply rounded and forming an angle of slightly less
 than ninety degrees.
General coloration light yellowish brown, green distad on organs
 of flight and caudal limbs; in life light green. Genicular lobes of
 cephalic and caudal femora suffused distad with dark brown, this
 narrowly margining the dorso-distal extremity of these members
 as well, though there very weak on the cephalic femora. Antennae
 and tegmina marked as in cryptostosticta. The males have a dark
 brown suffusion on each tegmen at the caudal extremity of the
 stridulating area.
The measurements of the type are given first for the males,
 those of the allotype first for the females. Length of body d 71 15
 and 14, 9 17.2 and 14 (shrivelled); length of pronotum d 71 4.8
 and 5.2, 9 4.7 and 4.6; greatest width of pronotum cf 2.7 and 2.7,
 9 2.8 and 2.8; length of pronotal lateral lobe c? 2.7 and 2.8, 9 3
 and 3; depth of pronotal lateral lobe c? 2 and 2, 9 2.1 and 2.1;
 length of tegmen d" 20 and 20.8, 9 23.9 and 22.3; width of tegmen
 cf 2.7 and 2.8, 9 3.1 and 3 ; length of cephalic femur c? 5.7 and 5.7,
 9 6 and 5.9; length of caudal femur tf 12.8 and 13.3, 9 14.7 and
 14.7; length of ovipositor 12 and 12 mm.
In addition to the described pair, a paratypic male bearing the
91 The female from the Island of Basilan has this emargination decidedly more
 nsivc, occupying the distal two-thirds of the subgenital plate. In all other
 features it agrees so very closely with the allotype that we believe this difference
 to be attributable to individual variation.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 259
same data as the allotype and a female from the Island of Basilan,
 from C. F. Baker, are before us.
Xiphidiopsis gemmicula new species. Plate XV, figure 10 ; plate XX, figures 5, 6 and 7.
This and the following species differ strikingly from the other
 forms of the genus before us in their smaller size, more slender
 form, more delicate structure, more contrasting coloration, absence
 of a cephalic coxal spine and very high specialization of the male
 supra-anal plate and cerci.
Though representing a distinct group, we do not believe that
 they should be separated generically.
Type: d"; Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From C. F.
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 827.]
Size small and form slender for the genus. Vertex with sulcation
 almost obsolete. Maxillary palpi with last joint equal in length
 to fourth. Pronotum elongate and slender, the metazona produced
 caudad and almost as long as the prozona, its surface as convex as
 in X. drepanophora here described. Lateral lobes of pronotum
 shallow, the ventro-cephalic angle broadly rounded, the ventral
 angle less broadly so, the caudal margin strongly oblique with
 concavity at humeral sinus very weak, but that opposite thoracic
 foramen decided. Ultimate tergite roundly produced on each
 side to bases of cerci, deeply and extensively U-emarginate mesad
 to near base. This emargination is filled by the supra-anal plate
 which there is flattened, longitudinally weakly bi-sulcate and
 directed caudad and weakly ventrad; beyond this it is directed
 ventrad, in a narrower shaft with proximo-lateral margins lamel-
 late, which, opposite the apex of the subgenital plate, is expanded
 into a large, rounded apex with ventral surface flattened but convex
 me?ad, bounded laterad and proximad by high sub-lamellate
 ridges, which are separated from the median portion by a deep
 channel. Cercus very large, very highly specialized, proximal
 section large and globose, about as broad as long, connected with
 distal portion by a short, thick neck ; distal portion produced ventrad
 in a very large and delicate lamellate plate, directed mesad, with
 surface in an oblique plane (the cereal plates so large that they
 overlap strongly) ; distal portion produced dorsad in a heavy ridge,
 directed mesad at a sharp angle, the disto-internal portion (or
 true apex) separated from the ventral plate, directed dorsad, with
 immediate apex roundly acute-angulate produced and bearing at
 its caudal base a flattened vertical lobe with outline strongly
 convex. Above the subgenital plate the yoke of the ultimate
 tergite is produced as a very similarly shaped plate, but with free
 margins lamellate, bearing in homologous position to the styles,
 two processes of the same slenderness but longer, directed ventrad
 and then curved distad. Subgenital plate small, lateral margins
 strongly concave-convergent proximad, then subparallel to the
260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
truncate apex, bearing small styles at the latero-caudal angles,
 each slightly over three times as long as its basal width, directed
 ventrad and curved weakly cephalad. Cephalic coxae unarmed.
 Genicular lobes of femora bluntly rounded. Cephalic tibiae with
 four pairs of spines and a distal pair of very small spines, the
 longest spine nearly three times the tibial width at that point.
 Median tibiae as described here for X. dicera, except that the
 proximo -external spine is absent on both and the penultimate-
 internal spine is absent on one of these. Caudal tibiae armed as
 characteristic of this and the genus Alloteratura.
Allotype: 9 ; Butuan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. (From
Agrees closely with male, differing as follows. Pronotum less
 strongly produced caudad, metazona two-thirds as long as prozona.
 Supra-anal plate much as here described for dicera, but with apex
 less broadly rounded. Cerci cylindrical, widest meso-proximad,
 thence tapering to the elongate, slender apices, slightly incurved
 and slightly over four times as long as greatest width. Ovipositor
 elongate, swollen in proximal third, distal portion showing a faint
 curvature dorsad with margins unarmed; dorsal valves acute at
 apex, ventral valves with acute apices slightly decurved. Sub-
 genital plate subquadrate, lateral margins rounding broadly into
 the transverse distal margin, which in caudal aspect is broadly
 concave.
General coloration yellowish buff, the tegmina delicate yellowish
 green. Antennae with intersection of the joints embrowned, at
 frequent intervals these markings being much heavier and forming
 blackish brown annuli. Vertex blackish brown, this paling on the
 occiput to a chestnut suffusion. Pronotum with a medio-longi-
 tudinal dark suffusion, chestnut cephalad, zinc orange mesad, then
 with an elongate triangular area of chestnut caudad, with the
 narrow, dark, cingulate caudal margin enclosing a small triangular
 patch of buffy. Tegmina faintly embrowned along sutural margin,
 but with a regular, longitudinal series of ten conspicuous blackish
 brown dots nearer this than the costal margin. Limbs immaculate,
 except that the penultimate joint of the tarsi and the apices of the
 caudal tibiae are embrowned.
Length of body cf 13.5, 9 11.8; length of pronotum cf 4, 9 3.7
 greatest width of pronotum cf 1.7, 9 1.8; length of pronotal lateral
 lobe d" 2.9, 9 2.7; depth of pronotal lateral lobe cf 1.3, 9 1.3;
 length of tegmen cf 16.3, 9 16.2; width of tegmen cf 1.9, 9 1.9;
 length of cephalic femur cf 4.2, 9  ; length of caudal femur
 cf 10.7, 9 10.5; length of ovipositor 7 -mm.
This delicately and beautifully marked insect is known only from
 the described pair.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 261
Xiphidiopsis aglaia new species. Plate XV, figure 11; plate XX, figures 8, 9 and 10.
Agreeing closely with the male of X. gemmicula, here described,
 in general structure and color pattern, the present male differs in
 certain color features, but signally in the remarkable and distinct-
 ive genitalic specialization.
Type: cf; Island of Basilan, Zamboanga Province, Philippine
 Islands. (From C. F. Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 828.]
Agr ;es closely with gemmicula in all structural features except
 the following. Vertex with a delicate, linear, medio-longitudinal
 sulcus. Pronotum with metazona slightly shorter than prozona.
 Ultimate tergite and supra-anal plate similar, except that the latter
 is more slender, with median shaft decidedly more elongate, this
 portion with dorsal surface channeled, the distal portion similar
 but less heavy, so that the apex has its median portion narrow,
 vertical but convex, with the lateral ridge reduced to a small,
 flattened lobe dorsad on each side, with outline strongly convex,
 these directed dorso-laterad. Cercus very large and intricately
 specialized., proximal portion heavy, short, produced internally
 in a heavy sub-denticulate plate; from this portion a much more
 slender shaft is directed caudad, developing distad as follows.
 Dorsad produced in a stout finger which is widest just before its
 rounded apex, ventrad produced as a very large and heavy plate,
 directed mesad with ventral surface deeply concave, forming an
 auriform process (so that these portions of the cerci overlap
 strongly). Above the subgenital plate the yoke of the ultimate
 tergite is produced, bearing two slender processes directed dorsad,
 which are concealed by the proximo-internal plates of the cerci.
 Subgenital plate very similar to that of gemmicula, except that it
 is somewhat shorter and the styles are not over three times as long
 as their basal width.
General coloration (apparently discolored) buffy brown, the sides
 of the thorax yellow and probably striking in life. Antennae as
 in gemmicula. Vertex tipped with blackish brown, remaining por-
 tions and a medio-longitudinal suffusion on occiput and pro-
 notum of zinc orange, this, toward the caudal margin of the pro-
 notum, changing to a small, elongate, triangular patch of buffy,
 bordered by a suffusion of blackish brown. This conspicuous
 marking, though of the same general character as in gemmicula,
 is seen to be differently proportioned. Tegmina very similar to
 those of gemmicula, but more embrowned, with a regular series of
 eleven, instead of ten, similar spots and one or two similar spots
 distad between the median vein and its branch. Limbs as in
 gemmicula except that the penultimate joint of the tarsi and the
 apices of the caudal tibiae are more heavily embrowned.
Length of body 13, length of pronotum 3.7, greatest width of
 pronotum 1.7, length of pronotal lateral lobe 2.8, depth of pronotal
 lateral lobe 1.4, length of tegmen 15.9, width of tegmen 1.9,
 length of cephalic femur 4, length of caudal femur 9.3 mm.
262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
EUANISOUS 92 new genus.
We propose the present genus to include the two species, pre-
 viously assigned to the genus Xiphidiopsis, which have the external
 auditory foramen of the cephalic tibiae apert, but the internal very
 strongly conchate; distincta (Redtenbacher) and teuthroides
 (Bolivar) .
Genotype.  Euanisous teuthroides (Bolivar).
The larger size and heavier build of teuthroides, when compared
 with the species of Xiphidiopsis before us, gives it a somewhat
 stronger, though wholly superficial, resemblance to a very di-
 minutive and slender Gryllacrid.
Euanisous teuthroides (Bolivar)
1904. Xiphidiopsis teuthroides Bolivar, Ann. Mus. Nat. Hungarici, II,
 p. 391. [& ; Singapore, [British Straits Settlements].]
Singapore, British Straits Settlements., (from C. F. Baker),
1 <?,1 9.
In addition to the characters given by Bolivar, the following
 are noted. Vertex not sulcate. Distal joint of maxillary palpus
 distinctly longer than fourth. Cephalic coxae armed with a strong-
The topotypic female before us shows the following additional
 features of value. Ovipositor elongate, very faintly curved upward,
 margins unarmed, ventral valves subemarginate near the blunt
 and weakly deflexed apex, (as in Xiphidiopsis). Ovipositor with
 ventral valves, on each side at base, produced in a short, narrow,
 horizontal, rounded lamella. 93 Subgenital plate apparently not
 strongly chitinous and transversely truncate distad.
The caudal tibiae, though described by Bolivar as unarmed,
 are in the topotypic material before us armed dorsad with small
 spines and ventrad, except in proximal portion, with slightly larger
 spines, distad with three pairs of spurs. The male before us agrees
 so closely in every other detail with Bolivar's description that we
 are convinced "femora" instead of "tibiae" was intended. Thus
 distincta appears to be separable mainly by its smaller size, un-
 armed mesosternum and by male genitalic differences.
92 In allusion to the remarkably, but very differently, developed auditory
 foramina on the internal and external surfaces of the cephalic femora.
3 The Labuan female has this lamella decidedly broader, and, though appar-
 ently agreeing in all other features (the contour of the subgenital plate can not
 be accurately distinguished), males from Borneo may show that insect to be
 specifically distinct.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 263
The measurements of the Bornean female are given last. Length
 of body (all shrunken) <? 14, 9 13 and 14.5; length of pronotum
 cf 4.7, 9 4.5 and 4.4; greatest width of pronotum c? 2.8, 9 3.3
 and 3.3; length of pronotal lateral lobe c? 3.3, 9 3.3 and 3.3;
 depth of pronotal lateral lobe c? 2.1, 9 2.2 and 2.2; length of tegmen
 d 1 22.7, 9 24 and 25.4; width of tegmen c? 3.3, 9 3.4 and 3.4;
 length of cephalic femur c? 5.1, 9 5.8 and 5.8; length of caudal
 femur <? 11.1, 9 12 and 11.5; length of ovipositor 13 and 13.2 mm.
The spines of the ventral margins of the cephalic and median
 tibiae, though showing some development toward the claw-like
 type found in Phisis, are as short as is usual in Xiphidiopsis, the
 longest only slightly over twice the tibial width at that point.
Phlugis thaumasia new species. Plate XXI, figures 2, 3 and 4.
This insect agrees in every feature of generic importance with
 the American genotype, P. teres (DeGeer). 94 It is the second
 Malayan species to be described of this otherwise Neotropical
Known from a single male, the specimen is found to agree closely
 with the single known female of the other Malayan species, P. dubia
 (Karny), described from Banguey Island, British North Borneo.
 It is distinguished by the wholly unarmed caudal femora. We
 believe that the male sex of the Bornean insect will show distinctive
These species may be quickly separated from other Asiatic
 Listroscelids by the prominent eyes, which are produced cephalad,
 the short, declivent and non-projecting vertex, the large curved
 spine of the cephalic coxae and distinctive limb armament.
Type: cf ; Singapore, British Straits Settlements. (From C. F.
Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 829.]
In addition to the generic characters noted above, the following
 are of diagnostic value. Size small, form slender, though not as
 slender and delicate as the majority of the American species.
 Maxillary palpi with fourth joint two -thirds as long as fifth, the
 latter very gradually enlarging distad to its truncate apex. Pro-
 notum cylindrical, moderately produced caudad, the metazona
 two-fifths as long as the prozona; lateral lobes with ventral margin
 horizontal, caudal margin oblique, showing only a faint offset
 opposite the small, round but exposed thoracic foramen. Tegmina
 and wings somewhat reduced, the former slightly surpassing the
94 Except that the caudal femora have but two pairs of distal spurs, the dorsal
 pair having disappeared. We, however, find this condition to be characteristic
 of the majority of the American species of Phlugis.
264 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
apex of the caudal femora. Prosternum and mesosternum each
 with a pair of bluntly conical projections, metasternum unarmed.
 Ultimate tergite briefly produced in space between cerci, the apex
 of this production transverse, weakly emarginate, with margins
 weakly convex. Cerci elongate and heavy, weakly sigmoid in
 lateral aspect, cylindrical with vent ro-internal surface swollen at
 end of proximal third, thence slightly widening, then tapering to
 the sharply rounded apex, this distal two-thirds vertically some-
 what lamellate (the cerci thus form elongate claspers, which are
 attingent distad). Subgenital plate with surface moderately
 convex, lateral margins weakly convergent to the truncate and
 weakly convex distal margin; styles situated at disto-lateral angles,
 very slender, cylindrical, directed ventrad and slightly curved
 cephalad, nearly six times as long as basal width. Femoral geni-
 cular lobes bluntly rounded. Cephalic femora armed ventrad with
 three external and four internal, moderately elongate spines, other
 femora entirely unarmed. Cephalic tibiae armed with four pairs
 of elongate spines and a minute pair of distal spines, the longest
 (proximo-internal) nearly five times the width of the tibia at that
 point. Median tibiae armed only with a minute pair of ventro-
 distal spines. Caudal tibiae unarmed ventrad, supplied with
 numerous small spines along the dorsal margin and armed distad
 with two pairs of short but heavy spurs.
General coloration immaculate, light brownish buff (apparently
 much discolored). Caudal tibial spurs and lateral portions of
 tarsal joints embrowned.
Length of body 11.5, length of pronotum 3.4, greatest width of
 pronotum 2, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3, depth of pronotal
 lateral lobe 1.2, length of tegmen 8.8, width of tegmen 1.9. extent
 of wing beyond tegmen 2.7, length of cephalic femur 3.8, length of
 caudal femur 11 mm.
Phisis obiensis new species. Plate XVII, figure 20.
This insect is closely related to the Papuan P. arachnoides
 (Bolivar), differing in the female sex from the description of that
 species in the slightly shorter limbs, slightly longer ovipositor,
 subgenital plate which has its apex produced mesad in a small,
 narrow-necked lobe and spination of the trochanters and femora of
 the median limbs.
830.]
Size medium, form very slender for the genus. Vertex very
 slender, weakly ascendant to the sharply rounded apex, medio-
 longitudinally weakly sulcate. Maxillary palpi extremely elongate,
 last joint decidedly longer than fourth, weakly and evenly curved,
 widening very slightly and gradually to the sharply rounded apex,
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 265
the dorsal surface concave in distal two-thirds. Pronotum with
 disk showing weak sulci, caudal margin weakly concave and cin-
 gulate; lateral lobes elongate, ventral margin horizontal, ventro-
 cephalic angle more strongly rounded than ventro-caudal, caudal
 margin strongly oblique ascendant, humeral sinus very weakly
 indicated. Between the tegmina proximad, a convex scutellum
 is exposed. Tegmina and wings fully developed, the former narrow
 and elongate, extending as far caudad as the wings, broadening
 somewhat caudad with apices rather broadly rounded. Prester-
 num bispinose, mesosternum binodulose, me'tasternum weakly bino-
 dulose. Cerci simple, slender, curved. Ovipositor moderately
 falcate, the dorsal and ventral margins distad very finely serrulate
 to the acute apex. Subgenital plate very small, with a narrow-
 necked, small, oval production at apex. Cephalic coxae unarmed.
 Median trochanters with a small ventral spine. Femoral genicular
 lobes strongly unispinose. Cephalic femora with four internal and
 six external, very elongate and slender, ventral spines. Median
 femora with two very small proximo-internal and four elongate
 external ventral spines. Caudal femora with eleven and thirteen
 small ventro-external spines. Cephalic tibiae with auditory fora-
 mina inflated conchate, the oval openings ventro-cephalad; armed
 ventrad with eight pairs of very elongate, slender spines (on one
 tibia with a single sub-distal additional ventro-internal spine),
 which decrease in length distad, and a pair of minute apical spines.
 Median tibiae armed ventrad with seven external and six internal,
 somewhat less elongate spines and a pair of minute apical spines.
 Caudal tibiae with numerous very small dorsal and less numerous
 larger ventral spines and three pairs of distal spurs.
General coloration immaculate buffy, probably a very pale
 green in life. Flecks of green occur on this dried specimen on the
 occiput, dorsum of the pronotum, scutellum and sides of the
 thorax. Ovipositor ochraceous-buff, tinged with tawny distad.
Length of body 13, length or pronotum 3.2, greatest width of
 pronotum 2.3, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3, depth of pronotal
 lateral lobe 1.7, length of tegmen 25.3, proximal width of tegmen
 2.2, greatest (meso-distal) width of tegmen 2.7, length of longest
 cephalic tibial spine 1.9, length of cephalic femur 8.9, length of
 caudal femur 14.8, length of ovipositor 9.8 mm.
Phisis philippinarum Karny.
1920. Phisis philippinarum Karny, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, LXX,
 p. 31. [ 9 ; Los Bafios, [Luzon], Philippine Islands.]
We assign the present specimen to philippinarum, as it agrees
 in every detail of limb armament as well as in many other features
 given in Karny's description. The proportions are, however, so
 different that it may represent a distinct species. Males probably
 will be needed to determine this.
266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
The broadly truncate subgenital plate has the distal margin
 showing very weak obtuse-angulate production, the lateral portions
 of this margin being faintly concave.
Length of body 17 (distended), length of pronotum 3.8, greatest
 width of pronotum 2.7, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3.7, depth
 of pronotal lateral lobe 1.9, length of tegmen 18, greatest width of
 tegmen 2.1, length of longest cephalic tibial spine 2.3, length of
 cephalic femur 8.2, length of caudal femur 14.5, length of ovipositor
 10 mm.
Phisis pectinata (Guerin)
1830. Lislroscelis pectinata Guerin, Voyage de La Coquille, Zool., II, part
 II, p. 153; Atlas, pi. Ins. X, figs. 1 and la to lc. [[<?]; Island of Bourou,
 Moluccas.]
Though this genotype has been excellently figured by Guerin
 and subsequently diagnosed by Serville, Redtenbacher has confused
 under this name probably a number of species and has given char-
 acters in his description which are not correct for pectinata.
The following features are noteworthy in the specimen before us.
 Ovipositor as described here for P. obiensis, but proportionately
 broader. Subgenital plate narrow, flattened ventrad, the lateral
 margins gradually converging to the truncate apex, which shows
 a weak concavity. Cephalic coxae with a short spine. Cephalic
 femora armed ventrad with four internal and five external, elongate,
 slender spines. Median femora armed ventrad with three shorter
 external spines and the internal margin with two minute proximal
 spines and a series of microscopic serrulations (this margin figured
 as unarmed by Guerin and so described by Serville). 95 Caudal
 femora armed ventrad with twelve external and two internal,
 minute spines. Cephalic tibiae armed ventrad with seven pairs of
 long, slender, curved spines and a pair of minute distal spines.
 Median tibiae armed ventrad with the same number of shorter
 spines and with a meso-dorsal spine.
Length of body 16.7, length of pronotum 4.5, greatest width of
 pronotum 3, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3.7, depth of pronotal
 lateral lobe 2, length of tegmen 30.2, width of tegmen 3.8, length
 of longest cephalic tibial spine 2.7, length of cephalic femur 8,
 length of caudal femur 14.8, length of ovipositor 11.9 mm.
Phisis acutipennis Carl. Plate XXI, figure 5.
1908. Phisis acutipennis Carl, Rev. Suisse de Zool., XVI, p. 144, pi. 4,
 figs. 22 and 23. [ 9 , Java.]
96 This may be due to the fact that the spines and serrulations of this margin
 are so small that they could easily have been overlooked without high mag-
 nification. Redtenbacher 's description of this margin as bearing five spines is
 certainly referable to a distinct species.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 267
The remarkable spatulate development of the spines of the
 cephalic limbs is well figured by Carl. These spines have their
 ventral surfaces concave and supplied with numerous microscopic
 black spinulae.
Carl has apparently (unlike most other authors) counted the
 distal pair of minute spines in giving the count for the cephalic
 and median tibiae. In the specimen here recorded the cephalic
 tibiae bear ventrad six pairs of very elongate, specialized spines
 and a pair of minute distal spines. The median tibiae have ventrad
 six external and five internal moderately elongate, slender spines
 and a minute distal pair of spines.
In this specimen we note further that the median trochanters
 are armed ventrad with a single small spine, the ovipositor has its
 margins minutely serrulate distad and the subgenital plate is
 minutely but suddenly concave-emarginate at its apex.
Length of body 16, length of pronotum 4.2, greatest width of
 pronotum 3, length of pronotal lateral lobe 3.8, depth of pronotal
 lateral lobe 1.7, length of tegmen 18.7, width of tegmen 2, length
 of longest cephalic tibial spine 3.4, length of cephalic femur 10.3,
 length of ovipositor 11.8 mm.
LIPOTACTES Brunner
1898. Lipotactes Brunner, Abh. Senckenb. Naturforsch. Ges., XXIV, p. 274.
 1909. Mortoniellus Griffini, Wiener Ent. Zeit., XXVIII, p. 107.
The above synonymy is wholly due to Brunner having assigned
his genus to the Listroscelinae, while, when Griffini submitted his
specimen, it was referred by Karny, Redtenbacher and Werner to
the Tympanophorinae. It appears almost certain that the latter
subfamily, based primarily on the absence of a dorso-internal spur
on the caudal tibiae is of no value. The much lower significance
of such differentiation is well understood if it is noted that the
North American subgenera of Conocephalus, for instance, are in a
number of cases thereby separable, 96
Lipotactes maculatus new species. Plate XV, figure 12.
This remarkable insect is readily distinguished from the Bornean
 genotype, L. alienus Brunner and the Sumatran L. karnyi (Grif-
 fini) by its much smaller size and varied coloration.
It is odd that, though three species are now known, a male of the
 genus has as yet not been described.
96 See Rehn and Hebard, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLI, p. 226, (1915).
268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
 Baker.) [Hebard Collection, Type no. 831.]
The structural features appear to agree closely in all the species
 of Lipotactes, the present insect differing in size; agreeing with
 alienus but differing from karnyi in the pronotal sulci, the first of
 which is deep on the disk and near the cephalic margin, the others
 broader and subobsolete in that portion. The other important
 features are the stout form; large and broad head; prominent
 eyes; vertex which rounds down to the low, suddenly projecting,
 narrow, vertical fastigium, which is subsulcate on its cephalic face
 and is in contact with the frontal fastigium. Prozona heavily bi-
 spinose, mesozona and metazona each heavily binodulose. Prono-
 tum short, truncate. Tegmina and wings absent. Ovipositor short,
 acute, moderately recurved, with base somewhat swollen, the mar-
 gins smooth to the acute apex. Subgenital plate triangular, medio-
 longitudinally carinate. Femora unarmed, the caudal femora much
 swollen proximad. Cephalic tibiae with auditory foramina rimate,
 these and the median tibiae armed ventrad with five pairs of heavy
 spines. Caudal tibiae with five distal spurs, the dorso-internal
 being absent. Cephalic coxae unispinose. Caudal coxae internally
 produced in a long fingsr. Femoral genicular lobes blunt, the ce-
 phalic internal and all of the median femora minutely and sub-
 obsoletely bispinose, the external of the caudal femora armed with
 a small spine and the internal with a large, heavy spine.
General coloration shining, brussels brown. Eyes deep chestnut
 brown. Occiput brussels brown, with four broad, suffused, longitu-
 dinal bands of dark prout's brown. Projecting portions of fastigium
 of vertex and facial fastigium blackish bay, with a broad vertical
 band of deep bay on face of clypeus, a similar but narrower sub-
 ocular band on each side and a vertical fleck of this color beneath
 the narrowly blackish bay margined antennal sockets. Antennae
 with proximal joints brussels brown with suffusions of blackish
 bay, remaining joints darker with some of the intersections brussels
 brown. Pronotum brussels brown, with a broad dorsal band of
 blackish on the lateral lobes, this margined dorsad by a slightly
 paler shade than that of the remaining portions of the disk. These
 markings continued caudad, becoming very weak toward the distal
 portion of the abdomen. Ovipositor tawny. Cephalic and median
 limbs buckthorn brown showing a faint tinge of tawny and thickly
 ornamented with large flecks of blackish brown; the caudal tibiae
 similar, but less heavily flecked. Caudal femora buckthorn brown
 showing a faint tinge of tawny, with the following markings:
 externally a large, dorso-proximal, immaculate, oval patch of buffy,
 below which is a heavy, roughly elongate-trigonal patch of blackish
 brown with base distad, sending a ray of blackish brown from the
 dorso-distal angle to the dorsal margin of the limb ; distad chestnut
 brown with a fleck of buffy dorsad, the remaining portions from the
 proximal to the distal dark marking showing numerous flecks of
19221 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 269
blackish brown dorsad, a row of the same mesacl, while the ventral
 margin is ornamented with a series of still heavier flecks.
Length of body 11.2, width of head (including eyes) 5, length of
 pronotum 3.2, greatest width of pronotum 3.4, length of prono-
 tal lateral lobe 2.9, depth of pronotal lateral lobe 2.7, length of
 cephalic femur 3.4, length of caudal femur 12.1, greatest width of
 caudal femur 3.2, length of ovipositor 6.7 mm.
The type of this handsome and extraordinary little insect is
 unique.
Hexacentrus unicolor Serville.
1831. Hexacentrus unicolor Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII, p. 146. [cf,
Kolambugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker),
Labuan, British North Borneo, 2 d\ 7 9
Borneo, (from and determined by Saussure), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 d\ 3 9 .
 September, 1901, (Harrison and Hiller), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]
Java, (from and determined by Saussure), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]
Hexacentrus mundus (Walker)
1869. Piura munda Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mus., II, p. 282.
[ 9 ; Ceram, [Moluccas].]
 1920. Hexacentrus spiniger Karny, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, XII, p. 32.
[cf; Mount Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands.]
1 d 1 , 1 9.
Sandakan, British North Borneo, (from C. F. Baker), 1 d 1 .
Obi Island, Moluccas, 12 tf , 23 9 .
Karny's recently described H. spiniger is a synonym, as indicated
 above, based on a very large and exceptionally intensively colored
 individual. 97
The additional synonymy indicated by Kirby is apparently
 correct, except that we find Stal's annulicornis to be a very distinct
97 Should the Malayan form be found sufficiently distinct from the Melanesian
 to warrant racial recognition, the name sellatus (Walker) would have priority
 over spiniger Karny for the more western race. In the present material the
 Moluccan males have the tegmina averaging broader and tapering more rapidly
 distad than in the Malayan males. In so plastic a species, however, we believe
 it very unwise to attempt to recognize races on so slight a difference, and that
 indicated in but one of the sexes.
270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
insect, for which we erect the genus Euhexacentrus below. Redten-
 bacher and Karny have misidentified material of mundus as
 annulicornis, this apparently resulting in Kirby's placing the latter
 name in the present synonymy.
In the Malayan material before us the last two tarsal joints are
 alone blackish, while in the Moluccan series the majority have all
 of the tarsal joints blackish. The present large series, however,
 shows this feature to be of no diagnostic value, a few Moluccan
 individuals having only the last two joints dark, while a single
 male of that series has the tarsi entirely pale, (these specimens
 belonging to the same species beyond possible question).
The color of the cephalic tibiae varies similarly, the majority of
 the Moluccan series having heavy dark brown flecks at the bases of
 the spines, a few intensive specimens have the external surface of
 the tibiae solidly dark brown to near their apices, while a few re-
 cessive examples have the tibiae with scarcely a trace of brown
In the character of the presence of one or two dorsal spines on
 the median tibiae, even greater variation occurs, as in some in-
 dividuals before us such spines are absent on one side and present
 on the other. Likewise the form of the male tegminal speculum
 varies to some extent.
EUHEXACENTRUS new genus.
The present genus is erected to include a single species, E. an-
 nulicornis (Stal). That species has apparently not been reported
 since the original description, Redtenbacher and Karny having
 mistaken Hexacentrus mundus (Walker) for it.
The limb armament and short, serrulate ovipositor are among
 the most important features to separate Euhexacentrus from Hexa-
 centrus. Closer agreement in certain features is shown by the
 Papuan Parahexacentrus paradoxus (Karny).
Compared with unicolor Serville, genotype of Hexacentrus and
 other species of that genus before us, the present genus is found to
 differ as follows. Vertex similar, except that it shows a decided,
 though linear, medio-longitudinal sulcus. Pronotum with trans-
 verse sulci deeper and ventral margin of lateral lobes more lamellate
 and sinuous. Tegmina and wings showing reduction, as in H.
 japonicus (Karny), the latter differing in having the rounded apex
 nearer the costal than the sutural margin. Ovipositor very short
 and much heavier than in Hexacentrus, the dorsal margin weakly
 sinuate, with a faint obliquity indicated toward the acute apex;
 dorsal and ventral margins very minutely serrulate distad, un-
1922] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 271
armed in Hexacentrus. Ventro-internal margin of cephalic femora
 and ventro-external margin of median femora armed with two
 large spines and some very small spinulae, the other ventral margins
 unarmed except for very small spinulae. Caudal femora with
 ventral margins also armed with fewer but heavier spines than in
 Hexacentrus (four to five), and with proximo-internal spinulae.
 Cephalic and median tibiae similar to Hexacentrus, with six pairs of
 spines, except that those of the cephalic tibiae are heavier and
 longer, while the median tibiae are unarmed dorsad. 98
The coloration of annulicornis is distinctive, though very delicate.
Euhexacentrus annulicornis (Stal). Plate XVII, figure 21.
1877. H [exacentrus] annulicornis Stal, Ofv. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forh.,
 1877, No. 10, p. 46. [ 9 , Philippine Islands.]
Lack of material for comparison has apparently led Redten-
 bacher, Kirby and Karny, into the error of placing annulicornis as a
 synonym of the very distinct Hexacentrus mundus (Walker).
This species was originally very poorly characterized and we note
 the following features, in consequence, in addition to those given in
 the accompanying generic description, for the female sex.
Size small for the group. Maxillary palpi with fifth (distal)
 joint slightly longer than fourth. Subgenital plate slightly longer
 than broad, with lateral margins convergent and feebly convex
 to the very weakly bilobate, truncate apex. Femoral genicular
 lobes with cephalic external bluntly triangularly produced; cep-
 halic internal, those of median femora and caudal internal strongly
 unispinose; caucal external strongly bispinose.
General coloration yellowish buff. Dorsal surface of vertex
 dark brown. Antennae with frequent elongate annuli of blackish
 brown. Pronotum with disk suffused with brown, the cephalic
 and caudal margins there narrowly blackish brown; lateral lobes
 with a dot of blackish brown mesad on ventral margin. Sides of
 thorax with a similar dot above insertion of median limbs. Teg-
 mina pale greenish or green yellow; veinlets, but not veins, delicate
 vinaceous; a meso-proximal and meso-distal fleck of brown and a
 series of small flecks along the sutural margin. In the more in-
 tensive specimen, a series of as decided but smaller flecks also
 occur along the costal margin. Genicular spines of all femora
 blackish brown, the genicular area lined ventrad with that color.
 Limbs with the following blackish brown dots. Cephalic femora
 mesad with a dorsal, median and ventral dot and distad a median
98 Though the median tibiae are usually supplied with one or two dorsal spines
 in Hexacentrus, we have found that presence or absence of such is an individual
 variation in species of that genus.
272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
dot. Median femora mesad with a ventral dot and distad with
 a median dot. Caudal femora mesad with a dorsal dot. Caudal
 femoral spines blackish brown, with apices paler, brown. Caudal
 tibiae immaculate except for brown suffusions at the bases of the
 more proximal, small ventral spines.
Length of body 19.5 and 18.5, length of pronotum 5.5 and 5.7,
 caudal width of pronotal disk 2.8 and 2.9, length of tegmen 25 and
 26.7, greatest (mesal) width of tegmen 5.8 and 6.8, length of
 cephalic femur 8.4 and 8.9, length of caudal femur 17.8 and 19.1,
 length of longest cephalic tibial spine 4.7 and 2.9, length of ovi-
 positor 8.5 and 8.6, greatest (median) width of ovipositor 2.7
 and 2.9 mm.
SAGINAE
Terpandrus splendidus new species. Plate XXI, figure 6.
From T. horridus (Burmeister) the present insect is quickly
 distinguished by its large size, much more elongate form and
 paler, striped coloration. In consequence, splendidus has a very
 distinctive general facies.
Type: 9 ; Yerilla, North Coolgardie Goldfield, Central Division,
 West Australia. March, 1899. (C. Humphrey.) [Hebard Col-
 lection, Type no. 844.]
Size large, form elongate. Vertex with fastigium narrow, curving
 ventrad and not projecting beyond plane of face; dorsal surface
 longitudinally sulcate, cephalic surface narrow and convex, sep-
 arated a brief distance from frontal fastigium. Eyes round, pro-
 jecting, bead-like. Pronotum feebly sellate, transverse sulci weak,
 caudal portion of metazona slightly elevated, flattened, its surface
 wrinkeled like other portions of disk but not as shining, due to its
 being microscopically rugulose as well; lateral lobes longer than
 deep, ventral margin very broadly convex, humeral sinus broadly
 concave. Tegmina and wings fully developed, extending to apex
 of the very long ovipositor, the former narrow. Cerci cultriform,
 due to a moderate lammellation of the internal margin, weakly
 incurved. Ovipositor slender, straight and very elongate, showing
 distad a slight curvature ventrad, the dorsal margin showing a
 weak, roughened channel toward the acute apex. Subgenital
 plate scoop-shaped, the disto -lateral margins convergent and weakly
 concave to the weakly produced, bluntly angulate apex. Spines
 of prosternum, mesosternum and metasternum heavy. Genicular
 lobes of cephalic and median femora bispinose, of caudal femora
 unispinose. Cephalic femora with ventral margins moderately
 lamellate, caudal femora slender, showing slight thickening prox-
 imad. Ventral femoral margins armed with spines, of which
 those of the cephalic femora are heavy and sublamellate, those of
 the caudal femora less so, as follows. Cephalic internal 5 and 6,
 cephalic external 9 and 9 (of which 1 and 2 proximal are very small),
 median internal 8 and 8, median external 5 and 6, caudal internal 7
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 273
and 8, caudal external 1 (very small) and 0. Auditory foramina of
 cephalic tibiae rimate. Cephalic and median tibiae armed with
 seven pairs of rather heavy spines.
Head and pronotum honey yellow, with a broad post-ocular
 band of whitish on each side, which is continued to the caudal
 margin of the pronotum and is there, in metazonal portion, bordered
 with a suffusion of cinnamon brown, broad on the disk and narrow
 on the lateral lobes. Lateral lobes of pronotum broadly margined
 ventrad with whitish. Tegmina transparent pale dull green
 yellow, like ground glass; stridulating field with a heavy border of
 warm buff, margined with a suffusion of cinnamon brown, the
 latter continued along the sutural margin to apex; interval between
 discoidal and median veins embrowned distad. Body apparently
 light buff in life, abdomen discolored in specimen under ponsider-
 ation. Ovipositor ochraceous-buff, tinged with tawny except
 proximad, much darker near apex, with dorsal channel blackish.
 Limbs light buff, dorsal surface of caudal femora with a longi-
 tudinal band of blackish chestnut brown, which becomes weak
 distad; spines blackish; caudal tibiae with lateral faces vinaceous~
 russet.
Length of body 47, length of pronotum 13.2, caudal width of
 pronotal disk 7.7, median length of pronotal lateral lobe 8.7,
 median depth of pronotal lateral lobe 5.9, length of tegmen 83.3,
 median width of tegmen 10, length of cephalic femur 18.3, length
 of caudal femur 44.5, greatest width of caudal femur 3.4, length of
 ovipositor 54, median width of ovispositor 1.8 mm.
PACHYSAGELLA new genus
The very stout build, short tegmina and limbs and weakly armed
 limbs readily distinguish this genus from the previously known
 valid genera of the Saginae."
Genotype.  Pachysagella maculata new species.
Size medium, form very robust. Head large and broad, nearly
 circular in cephalic aspect; fastigium of vertex very small, pro-
 jecting, apex bituberculate. Antennae very slender, shorter than
 body. Eyes prominent, but not projecting as much as in Ter-
 pandrus. Pronotum with disk nearly rectangular, surface weakly
 convex, the principal sulcus defined by a broad weak impression
 only in the male sex, cephalic margin broadly convex, lateral
 margins straight and almost parallel, caudal margin showing very
 feeble concavity, transverss; lateral lobes much longer than deep,
99 Brunner has described Pachysaga, a genus without species (Ann. Mus.
 Genova, XXXIII, p. 183, (1893).) Study of the material upon which that
 name was based may show it to be closely related to, possibly the same as, the
 species here described. From the locality, Lord Howe's Island (and Java ?),
 it would appear probable that that insect is a member of a distinct though closely
 related genus.
274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
ventro-cephalic angle rounding into the broadly convex ventral
 margin, caudal margin strongly oblique, with humeral sinus
 broadly concave. Tegmina and wings greatly reduced overlapping
 in male, lateral in female. Ovipositor elongate and slender, straight
 but showing greater obliquity of the dorsal than the ventral margin
 toward the aciculate apex. Limbs short. Femora with genicular
 lobes roundly produced, unarmed; internal margins alone armed
 with small spines. Cephalic tibiae with auditory foramina rimate
 and with a strong impression distad on each side beyond the
 openings. Prosternum armed with two slender spines, mesoster-
 num and metasternum very broad, the former with two lateral,
 triangular spines. Cephalic coxae armed with a slender spine.
 Caudal tibiae without dorso-distal spine or spur.
Pachysagella macula ta new species. Plate XXI, figures 7 and 8; plate XXII, figures
 2, 3 and 4.
Wide dissimilarity is found when compared with other Australian
 species of the Saginae. The head in some ways suggests the type
 found in certain species of the otherwise very distinct genus
 Salomona, belonging to the Agraeciinae. When compared, how-
 ever, the head is seen to differ greatly in having its width and depth
 nearly equal (due to the much shorter mouthparts), in the widely
 separated eyes, much shorter antennae, shorter and bituberculate
 fastigium of the vertex and almost vertical face.
Type: c? ; South Australia. (Compere.) [Hebard Collection,
Type no. 845.]
 the following are noted. Size medium for this subfamily, which
 includes very large species, form very thick-set. Occiput evenly
 convex to the small, straight fastigium of the vertex, which is
 directed cephalad and thus projects beyond the nearly vertical
 plane of the broadly convex face, the surface of face rugulose,
 particularly ventrad. Disk of pronotum smooth, velvety in ap-
 pearance; lateral lobes weakly rugulose and shining in darkened
 portions, the ventral and caudal margins cingulate, this decided
 at the humeral sinus. Tegmina slightly broader than long, the
 greater portion occupied by the large stridulating area, which is
 broader than long. Wings pad-like, decidedly shorter than teg-
 mina and with costal margins alone narrowly visible. Ultimate
 abdominal tergite narrow, lateral margins slightly raised and convex
 on each side of the depressed median point, where the small, acute,
 shield-shaped supra-anal plate is attached and fused with this
 tergite. Cercus triangular, nearly twice as long as basal width,
 internal portion moderately lamellate with margin nearly straight
 to apex, external margin very feebly convex to the minute and
 sharply rounded apex, the latter ventral in position, curled inward
 so that it is directed meso-distad; above which, at its base, is a
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 275
minute tooth on the dorsal (internal) margin, directed mesad.
 Subgenital plate ample, lateral margins convex-convergent to the
 short but broadly concave distal margin, styles (destroyed in
 type) situated in sockets at the disto-lateral angles formed by these
 margins. Ventral femoral margins armed with small spines, as
 follows. Cephalic internal 1 to 1, cephalic external 0, median
 internal 3 to 4, median external 2 (very small) and 0, caudal
 internal 3 to 5, caudal external 0. Caudal tibiae with apex supplied
 only with a pair of ventral spurs, scarcely larger than the pre-
 ceding spines.
Form like male, thick-set. Tegmina nearly circular, lateral,
 separated by a space slightly greater than the tegminal width.
 Vestigial wings almost entirely concealed, extending as far caudad
 as tegmina (slightly beyond caudal margin of metanotum) . Supra-
 anal plate transverse, with free margin broadly convex. Ovi-
 positor slender, straight, longer than body, the dorsal margin
 showing a weak, roughened channel (as in Terpandrus) toward
 the aciculate apex. Subgenital plate broader than long, lateral
 portions embracing base of ovipositor, margin at apex weakly
 angulato-concave.
Color pattern as figured, chestnut brown and clay color in male,
 cinnamon brown and clay color in female with delimiting lines of
 buff. 100 Tegmina tawny olive, in part washed with dark brown.
 Limbs cinnamon, the femora necked with blackish brown, the
 caudal femora with longitudinal streaks of the same distad, their
 apices and brief section preceding these streaks immaculate.
Length of body d* 31.5, 9 31.8; length of pronotum d" 10.7,
 9 10.7; cephalic width of pronotum d 71 6.8, 9 7.3; caudal width
 of pronotum d 71 8, 9 8.2; exposed length of tegmen d" 7.7, 9 4.1;
 width of tegmen cf 8.7, 9 4; length of cephalic femur d 71 8, 9 8.8;
 length of caudal femur d 71 16, 9 18.6; length of ovipositor 33.8;
 median width of ovipositor 1.6 mm.
This singular insect is known from the described pair.
GRYLLACRINAE
Little effort appears to have been made in assigning the multitude
 of species of the present genus to anything like natural groups or
 logical sequence. The type of wing coloration would first appear
 to be the most useful character for sorting to groups, but further
 study shows that, by such sorting, species having very great struc-
 tural differences would be thrown together.
With the few species at present under consideration, we have
 arranged the linear sequence on the basis of the female ovipositor.
10  These are clearly variations of the same pattern, probably subject to de-
 cided individual diversity in the species.
276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Three types are found. In the first, the ovipositor is curved
 dorsad with apex slightly enlarged, like certain spear-heads. In
 the second, the ovipositor is similarly curved dorsad, but distad
 tapers evenly to the sharp apex. In the third, the ovipositor is
 straight and shaped much as in certain Copiphorine genera; slender,
 but not tapering until near the acute apex. Under these groups
 the species showing least development of color pattern are placed
 first.
This is admittedly a sketchy arrangement, but a beginning must
 be made or the affinities of the many described species will become
 almost impossible to ascertain.
Gryllacris arctata Walker.
1869. Gryllacris arctata Walker, Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Suppl. Blatt. Br.
 Mus., p. 184. [ 9 , Philippine Islands.]
Los Bafios, Laguna, Luzon, Philippine Islands, (F. X. Williams),
 1 oMA. N. S. P.].
The synonymy of G. brevispina Stal has been confirmed by Grif-
 fini. 101 The distinctive, though subtle, markings of this diminutive
 species are plainly shown in the present specimen. Measurements
 are not given, the individual before us being shrivelled from im-
 mersion in alcohol.
Gryllacris vitrea new species. Plate XXI, figure 9.
This modestly colored insect runs in Griffini's key of the Bornean
 species of Gryllacris, 102 to that section including G. signatifrons
 Serville. From that insect the present is distinguished by the more
 generally pale head, pronotum largely suffused but not conspicu-
 ously dark, veins and veinlets of wings showing no trace of margin-
 ing suffusion and immaculate abdomen.
The male genitalia are widely distinct. 103
Type no. 846.]
Size and form medium for the genus. Fastigium of vertex broad,
 but slightly less than one and one-half times as wide as the proximal
 antennal joint, surface cephalad flattened, lateral margins very
 sharply rounded but not carinate; ventrad contiguous with the
 facial fastigium, there showing a bi-concave linear sulcation, which
 consequently has a median angulation, directed dorsad. Face
 smooth, not punctulate. Pronotum in dorsal aspect subquadrate;
101 Philippine Jour. Sci., X, p. 68, (1915).
 "* Sarawak Mus. Jour., I, No. 2, p. 3, (1912).
 13 Described for signatifrons by Griffini (Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Univ.
 Torino, XXIII, No. 581, p. 6, {1908).)
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 277
cephalic margin weakly convex mesad, cephalic sulcus deep,
 longitudinal sulcus extending from median point to caudal sulcus,
 caudal sulcus moderately deep, lateral lobes with V-sulcus deeper.
 Lateral lobes of pronotum longer than deep, ventral angles broadly
 rounded, ventral margin straight and slightly oblique, humeral
 sinus distinct. Tegmina and wings fully developed, extending well
 beyond apex of abdomen, the latter extending nearly three milli-
 meters further caudad than the former. Tegmina as broad meso-
 distad as mesad, apex rather strongly rounded and slightly nearer
 costal than sutural margin. Wings long and rather broad, not
 parachute-like. Eighth tergite broad. Ultimate tergite truncate
 produced, its surface weakly concave declivent to apex, beneath
 which it is armed with two uncinate spines, the apices of which
 project dorso-caudad. Beneath these are two heavier, curved
 spines, springing from chitinous supra-cereal plates. Cerci elongate
 and very slender. Beneath the cerci are heavy plates, directed
 mesad, with disto-cephalic angle produced in a curved spine. Sub-
 genital plate weakly convex, except latero-distad where it is
 weakly concave, supplied with large socketed styles, between which
 it is produced in two narrow, rounded projections which extend
 caudad nearly to the median portion of the styles and between which
 a narrow U-shaped median emargination is formed. Cephalic
 and median tibiae armed with the usual number of spines of average
 length. Caudal femora stout and short, ventral margins armed
 with six internal and eight external small but stout spines, which
 increase in size distad.
Head with labrum, clypeus, face and two proximal antennal
 joints ochraceous-buff, shading to buckthorn brown on occiput;
 eyes bordered caudad with a suffusion of prouts brown, which is
 continued ventrad to the clypeus as a weak, subocular, vertical
 suffusion. Remaining portions of antennae cinnamon brown.
 Pronotum prouts brown with two flecks of buffy meso-laterad on
 disk and a similar fleck before ventro-cephalic angle of each lateral
 lobe, lateral lobes and caudal portion of disk fading to buffy toward
 margins. Tegmina with anterior field to near apex and narrow
 portion toward costal margin hyaline, in other portions very
 weakly and evenly tinted with prouts brown, veins and veinlets
 prouts brown. Wings hyaline showing the faintest of brown
 tinting, except distad in anterior field where they are very weakly
 tinted with prouts brown, veins prouts brown, veinlets very slender,
 tinged with that color. Body and limbs ochraceous buff, the tibiae
 and trrsi suffused with tawny. Spines of caudal femora tawny,
 becoming chestnut brown at apices.
Length of body 32.5, least width of vertex 1.7, length of pro
 notum 5.9, length of tegmen 38, median width of tegmen 11.8,
 length of cephalic femur 8.4, length of caudal femur 15.2, length of
 longest cephalic tibial spine 1.8 mm.
278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Gryllacris nigrita new species. Plate XXII, figure 5.
In appearance this insect probably resembles closely G. fusci-
 nervis var. diamantii Griffini 10 from the Island of Basilan, Phil-
 ippine Islands. The blackish coloration of the body, except that
 abdominal tergites are each broadly buffy caudad, and hyaline the
 tegmina and wings, with veins and veinlets dark, show close agree-
 ment with that insect. In structure, however, the present insect
 differs greatly in the very broad vertex and much more elongate
 ovipositor, while in size it is larger with tegmina and wings shorter.
 Type no. 847.]
Size small, form moderately robust for the genus. Fastigium
 of vertex very broad, slightly over twice as wide as the proximal
 antennal joint, surface cephalad flattened, lateral margins rather
 bluntly rounded; ventrad fusing with frontal fastigium, transverse
 linear sulcation being indicated only laterad. Face shining but
 with irregular impressed punctae and lines. Pronotum with
 cephalic margin of disk broadly convex, cephalic sulcus broad and
 deep, longitudinal sulcus faintly indicated meso-caudad, caudal
 sulcus very weak, lateral lobes with V-sulcus broad and very deep;
 lateral lobes somewhat longer than deep, ventral margin nearly
 straight, showing faint concavity meso-proximad, ventro-cephalic
 angle obtuse-angulate but more sharply rounded, humeral sinus
 small but distinct. Tegmina and wings extending slightly beyond
 apex of abdomen. Tegmina broadest slightly beyond median
 point, apex rather broadly rounded and slightly nearer costal than
 sutural margin. Wings very broad, moderately parachute-like.
 Ovipositor very elongate, slender, strongly curved at base, thence
 to apex weakly curved dorsad, the apex faintly enlarged with
 dorsal margin suddenly oblique to the sharply rounded tip. Sub-
 genital plate flattened, triangular with apex U-emarginate, the
 lateral apices forming sharp, equilateral, triangular projections.
 Limbs hairy. Cephalic and median tibiae armed with the usual
 number of spines, which are exceptionally short. Caudal femora
 stout and short, ventral margins armed with five and six internal
 and nine and ten external small, stout spines, which increase in
 size distad.
Head, pronotum, thorax and limbs shining blackish, showing a
 chestnut tinge. Head with normally concealed portion of occiput,
 minute lateral ocelli and a longitudinal sulcus on ventral portion of
 clypeus, buffy. Antennae blackish brown proximad, thence hazel
 with principal joints (usually every fourth joint) very slightly
 darker. Tegmina and wings hyaline, showing an exceedingly faint
 tint of brown, veins and veinlets prouts brown, the cross-veinlets
 of the wings showing extremely faint traces of narrow marginal
104 Monit. Zool. Ital., XXIX, p. 29, (1918).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 279
suffusion. Abdomen shining blackish with caudal portion of each
 tergite buffy, these bands narrowing strongly distad. Ovipositor
 blackish proximad, thence becoming chestnut brown with dorsal
 and ventral margins and apex hazel.
Length of body 26 (somewhat extended), least width of vertex
 1.9, length of pronotum 5.7, length of tegmen 22.9, median width
 of tegmen 8.9, length of cephalic femur 7, length of caudal femur
 12.5, length of longest cephalic tibial spine 1, length of ovipositor
 19.7 mm.
The type of this obscurely colored species is unique.
Gryllacris signifera (Stoll)
1813. [Gryllus Tettigonia] signifera Stoll, Natuur. afbeeld. beschr. Spooken
 etc., Repr. Spectres, p. 26, pi. Xlla, fig. 50, Register p. 11. [[9], East
 Indies.]
Sumatra, (Harrison and Hiller), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]
The ovipositor is of the same general type of that found in
G. nigrita here described.
Length of body 31, width of vertex 1.7, length of pronotum 7.2,
length of tegmen 25.6, greatest width of tegmen 9, length of cephalic
femur 10.9, length of caudal femur 18.8, length of longest cephalic
tibial spine 2.9, length of ovipositor 17.4 mm.
Gryllacris heros Gerstaecker.
1860. Gryl[lacris] heros Gerstaecker, Archiv fiir Naturgesch., XXVI, p. 257.
 [ 9 ; Amboina [Island, Moluccas].]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 tf , 1 9 .
The ultimate tergite of the male before us is large, produced
 caudad, forming a large, blunt cone, the ventral margin beneath
 transverse, above that of the subgenital plate.
In the present material of this large and handsome species the
 tegmina are translucent ochraceous-buff, in the male with proximal
 veins of marginal field whitish as originally described; in the female
 these organs are uniform warm buff. The wings are striking^
 bicolored, as is normal for the species.
Length of body cf 41.5, 9 34.5 (abdomen retracted) ; 105 length
of pronotum <? 8.2, 9 9.3; length of tegmen d* 35, 9 36; median
width of tegmen c? 13, 9 13.3; length of cephalic femur d 1 13.3,
9 14; length of caudal femur cf 21, 9 23 ; length of longest cephalic
tibial spine d* 4.1, 9 4.9; length of ovipositor 29 mm.
Gryllacris punctipennis gemmicula new subspecies. Plate XXI, figure 10.
Compared with typical G. punctipennis Walker, described from
105 The original measurements for the type are. Length of body 35.9, length
 of tegmen 38, length of ovipositor 29.5 mm.
280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Batjan Island, Celebes, 106 the present insect is found to differ in its
 smaller size, black and strikingly contrasted face and conspicuous
 ocelli.
Were punctipennis not already known to be subject to great
 color variation, the striking facial coloration of the present insect
 would lead us to suppose it to be specifically distinct.
850.]
Agrees closely with Griffini's description of the synonymic subsp.
 dempwolffi, differing as follows. Head with occiput, caudal half
 of genae, vertex to median ocellus and palpi light ochraceous-buff ;
 ocelli washed with old rose; face, cephalic half of genae, mandibles
 and dorsal portion of clypeus shining blackish brown; 107 ventral
 portion of clypeus buffy, labrum etruscan red. Antennae buffy,
 washed with old rose proximad. Pronotum and limbs buffy, washed
 with old rose. Tegmina transparent, light ochraceous-buff, immac-
 ulate. Wings transparent, light ochraceous-buff, with four or five
 rows of rounded and sharply delimited spots of mummy brown in
 radiate field and an interrupted, short, submarginal line of the same
 color. These markings surround the cross- veinlets and reappear as
 a few scattered flecks in the anterior field.
Length of body 23.7, greatest width of fastigium of vertex 1.1,
 length of pronotum 4.9, length of tegmen 18.3, greatest width of
 tegmen 5.1, length of cephalic femur 7, length of caudal femur
 12.2, length of longest cephalic tibial spine 1.9 mm.
Gryllacris annulicornis new species. Plate XXII, figure 6.
Though running in Griffini's key for the Bornean species of
 Gryllacris m to section A, the narrow vertex and strikingly marked
 pronotum and limbs show closer agreement with the Bornean
 G. maculipes subspecies irregularis Griffini, than with any other
 described forms
Though irregularis is apparently subject to considerable color
 variation, we believe that comparison will show annulicornis to
 be even more widely distinct than we can at present determine
 from the description of that subspecies.
The sharply and thickly annulate antennae, and ovipositor,
 which tapers evenly to its apex, constitute striking characters for
 the present species.
106 Later very fully diagnosed by Griffini as G. punctipennis subspecies demp-
 wolffi, which name that author has placed in synonymy under punctipennis after
 imination of Walker's type (Boll. Lab. Zool. R. Scuola Sup. d'Agr. Portici,
 III, p. 218, (1909).)
fchis feature only suggesting G. personata Serville, described from Java.
 108 Sarawak Mus. Jour., I, No. 2, p. 1, (1912).
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 281
Type: 9, Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type
 no. 848.]
Size and form medium for the genus. Fastigium of vertex
 narrow, appreciably narrower than the proximal antennal joint,
 surface cephalad concave between the carinate lateral margins;
 ventrad fusing with frontal fastigium, transverse linear sulcation
 being indicated only laterad. Face shining, with a few faint
 impressions. Pronotum with cephalic margin of disk very broad-
 ly convex, cephalic sulcus very deep, longitudinal sulcus faintly
 indicated meso-caudad, caudal sulcus weak, lateral lobes with
 V-sulcus broad and moderately deep; lateral lobes decidedly longer
 than deep, ventral margin nearly straight, showing faint concavity
 ventro-cephalic angle broadly rounded, ventro-caudal angle broadly
 truncate, humeral sinus almost obsolete. Tegmina and wings
 extending beyond apex of abdomen. Tegmina broadest meso-
 distad, the sutural margin obliquely convex from that point to the
 well rounded apex, situated at the costal margin. Wings not well
 developed, probably incapable of sustained flight. Ovipositor
 comparatively short, very slender, curved gently and evenly dorsad
 to the sharp apex. Subgenital plate scoop-shaped, with apex in
 caudal aspect U-emarginate and dorso-lateral angles thus formed
 obtuse and rounded. Limbs elongate. Cephalic and median
 tibiae armed with the usual number of spines, which are very
 elongate. Caudal femora comparatively slender, ventral margins
 armed with (five and thirteen) internal and (ten and twelve)
 external stout spines, which increase in size distad.
Head vinaceous-rufous; the minute lateral ocellae and large
 median ocellus light ochraceous-buff, the latter surrounded by a
 heavy suffusion of blackish brown; margins of antennal scrobes
 blackish brown; clypeus with buffy medio-longitudinal suture, the
 lateral portions suffused with mars brown; labrum blackish brown;
 mandibles vinaceous-rufous, with suffusions of mars brown meso-
 proximad. Antennae with first joint blackish brown, thence
 ochraceous-buff with every second or third joint wholly or in part
 blackish brown, thus showing very numerous, sharply defined but
 irregularly spaced annuli. Pronotum broadly margined with
 ochraceous-buff, but with immediate margins blackish brown, a
 large blackish brown patch covering the greater remaining portion,
 with an invasion of the marginal ochraceous-tawny cephalad on
 the disk and ventro-cephalad on the lateral lobes. Tegmina
 hyaline, showing a very faint tinge of tawny, particularly meso-
 proximad; veins and veinlets dresden brown, deepening proximad
 to prouts brown. Wings hyaline, very faintly tinged with brown;
 veins and veinlets dresden brown, the cross-veinlets slender but
 conspicuous, though showing no trace of marginal suffusion.
 Abdomen mikado brown, each tergite heavily marked ventro-
 laterad with blackish brown, each sternite with a similar dark
 marking on each side. Ovipositor clay color, shading to cinnamon
282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
distad. Limbs ochraceous-buff, the caudal femora washed laterad
 with ochraceous-tawny, with a median line of chestnut brown in
 proximal portion. Cephalic femora with a broad pre-genicular
 suffusion of chestnut brown, all ventral femoral margins and spines
 blackish brown. Cephalic tibiae with a short annulus of blackish
 brown proximad and a similar suffusion distad, median and caudal
 tibiae with similar proximal annuli. Spines of caudal tibiae black-
 ish brown with heavy flecks of the same at their bases.
Length of body 33 (somewhat extended), least width of vertex
 1.1, length of pronotum 6.3, length of tegmen 29, median width of
 tegmen 11, length of cephalic femur 13.7, length of caudal femur
 23.3, length of longest cephalic tibial spine 4.1, length of ovipositor
 17.7 mm.
The type of this handsomely marked species is unique.
Gryllacris macroxiphus new species. Plate XXII, figure 7.
We have been unable to find any closely related species among
 the numerous descriptions of Melanesian and Malayan forms of
 the genus. Nearest agreement is apparently with the Australian
 G. straminea Brunner, the present insect differing in the dark
 pronotum, uniformly pale limbs and somewhat larger size. The
 male differs further from the described male of that insect in having
 the subgenital plate truncate, not produced.
Type: d* ; Obi Island, Moluccas. [Hebard Collection, Type
no. 849.]
Size and form medium for the genus. Fastigium of vertex very
 narrow, slightly over one half width of proximal antennal joint,
 surface cephalad concave between the carinate lateral margins,
 ventrad forming with facial fastigium a transverse suture. Face
 shining, moderately impresso-punctulate and rugulose. Pronotum
 with cephalic margin of disk very weakly convex, cephalic sulcus
 very broad and weak, becoming subobsolete dorsad, longitudinal
 sulcus represented by a fine impressed line meso-caudad, caudal
 sulci weak, lateral lobes with V-sulcus broad and not very deep;
 lateral lobes decidedly longer than deep, ventral margin nearly
 straight, showing faint concavity meso-cephalad, ventro-cephalic
 angle broadly rounded, ventro-caudal angle rounded and broadly
 subtruncate, humeral sinus broadly and very weakly concave.
 Tegmina and wings fully developed, very elongate, extending far
 beyond apex of abdomen. Tegmina comparatively narrow,
 rounded distad. Ultimate tergite rounding evenly ventrad, meso-
 ventrad with a minute, broadly W-shaped area, this laterad with
 margins carinulate, mesad impressed, its surface somewhat concave;
 below this area the tergite is armed with two very small teeth,
 curving dorso-mesad, with apices nearly attingent. Cerci elongate
 and very slender, between which are flattened plates (the armament
 of which can not be seen in the single male before us). Subgenital
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 283
plate narrowly transverse; free margin transverse, very feebly
 convex between the widely separated lateral styles. Styles small,
 moderately stout, cylindro-conical, straight, slightly over twice as
 long as basal width. Cephalic and median tibiae armed with the
 usual number of spines, which are very elongate. Caudal femora
 moderately stout and short, ventral margins armed with (twelve
 to fourteen) internal and (nine to thirteen) external spines, the
 proximal of which, where the greater numbers are present, being
 very small.
Agrees with male, except as follows. Size very slightly larger.
 Ovipositor Copiphoroid, very elongate, straight, tapering at apex
 to an acute median point. Subgenital plate short, transverse, the
 lateral margins weakly convergent, rounding into the transverse
 distal margin, which in caudal aspect shows weak convexity ventrad.
Coloration in general very simple. Head and pronotum mars
 brown, except as follows; lateral carinae of fastigium of vertex and
 large median ocellus warm buff, portion of occiput normally con-
 cealed, caudal portion of genae, palpi, clypeus and labrum clay
 color. Antennae clay color, with first joint suffused with tawny.
 Pronotum almost uniform mars brown, the meso-distal area and
 meso-cephalic and meso-caudal portions of the lateral lobes very
 faintly paler. Spines of limbs clay color, those of the ventral
 femoral margins heavily tipped with mars brown. Ovipositor
 clay color tinged with ochraceous-tawny, except proximad.
Length of body d 1 26.5, 9 31; least width of vertex cf -8, 9 .9;
 length of pronotum o 71 6, 9 6.7; length of tegmen cf 37.2, 9 39.5;
 length of cephalic femur d 71 9.8, 9 11.2; length of longest cephalic
 tibial spine cf 4, 9 4.1; length of caudal femur c? 17, 9 18.5;
 length of ovipositor 31.7 mm.
This plainly bicolored insect is known from the described pair.
Gryllacris fumigata Haan.
1S42. L[ocusla] (Gryllacris) fumigata Haan, Verh. Nat. Geschied. Nederl.
 overzee. bezitt., Zool., Ins., p. 219. [d 1 , Java.]
These specimens differ from the typical condition in having the
 ventral margins of all of the femora black. Agreement, in this
 respect only, is shown with the variety elegans Griffini. 109 We do
 not believe racial differentiation should be recognized, though
 further material may prove such to be the case.
The pronotum is somewhat paler laterad in the U-shaped de-
 pression formed by the sulci. The tegmina are translucent cameo
 brown, with series of areolae distad toward the lateral margins
109 Ann. Mus. Nat. Hungarici, IX, p. 179, (1911).
284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
vinaceous pink. The wings are vinaceous pink, each slender cross-
 veinlet of that color, strongly bordered with mineral red.
Length of body 30 and 36, length of pronotum 7.7 and 7.9,
 length of tegmen 38.3 and 43, width of tegmen (larger specimen
 alone spread) 15.8, length of cephalic femur 11 and 10.7, length of
 caudal femur 19.4 and 19.8, length of ovipositor 21.7 and 22.8 mm.
 Paragryllacris griffinii new species. Plate XXI, figure 11.
In the male genitalia this species shows nearest agreement with
 the Australian P. shelfordi Griffini. The subgenital plate, however,
 differs widely in being shorter, entirely lacking lateral projections
 and in having the apex minutely triangularly emarginate mesad
 and obliquely truncate on each side.
The head is pale, but with vertex apparently much as in shelfordi.
 The transverse veinlets of the tegmina are slightly but appreciably
 darker than the veins, particularly proximad.
Type: d 1 ; Queensland, Australia. [Hebard Collection, Type
 no. 851.]
Size and form medium. Fastigium of vertex nearly one and
 one-half times as broad as proximal antennal joint, surface cephalad
 flattened and finely rugulose between the slender, elevated lateral
 carinae. Face rather thickly but not deeply impresso-punctulate
 and rugulose. Pronotum with cephalic margin of disk moderately
 convex, cephalic sulcus broad but deep, caudal marginal portion
 of disk slightly raised, with margin itself cingulate; lateral lobes
 with ventro-cephalic and ventro-caudal angles rather sharply
 rounded rectangular, ventral margin showing weak convexity.
 Tegmina and wings fully developed, ample, extending well beyond
 apex of abdomen. Tegmina with rounded apex slightly nearer
 costal than sutural margin. Ultimate tergite suddenly obtuse-
 angulate emarginate meso-caudad, on each side with a small
 finger directed ventrad and curving inward, above which is a
 minute node armed with a minute spine, curved meso-ventrad.
 Within, on the surface of the impressed area there formed, are
 plates armed ventrad with a spine, curved dorso-laterad, on each
 side. Cerci moderately elongate and slender. Subgenital plate
 with lateral margins straight, convergent to near apex, where they
 are briefly parallel, the apex with a minute angulate emargination,
 the lateral portions of the apex with distal margins straight, oblique
 1 o the median emargination. Spines of cephalic and median femora
 of the usual number, rather short. Caudal femora with ventral
 margins armed with (five and six) internal and (four and four)
 cxlernal, small spines.
General coloration cinnamon buff, deepening to tawny on face,
 clypeus, labrum, mandibles, cephalic tibiae, tarsi and briefly distad
 on all the femora. Tegmina and wings nearly clear hyaline, veins
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 285
and veinlets warm huff, except proximad on the tegmina, where
 the veinlets are dresden brown in all but the anal field.
Length of body 31.5, width of fastigium of vertex 1.8, length of
 pronotum 5.8, length of tegmen 40.8, greatest width of tegmen 13,
 length of cephalic femur 8.2, length of caudal femur 13.8 mm.
The type is unique. We take pleasure in naming this interesting
species in honor of Dr. Achille Griffini, specialist on the Gryl-
lacrinae, who, we understand, has been obliged to give up active
work, due to injuries received as an Officer in the Italian Army
during the World War.
Papuogryllacris obiensis new species. Plate XXII, figure 8.
It is interesting to find a Moluccan species of this genus, hitherto
 known only from New Guinea and the more adjacent islands.
Of the known forms, P. ligata subspecies concoloripes Griffini, 110
 appears to be nearest, that insect differing in the more heavily
 impresso-punctate face, bicolored pronotum and immaculate limbs.
 The ovipositor of the present insect, very slender beyond base and
 weakly curved upward, appears to show further differentiation
 from the type developed in P. ligata (Brunner).
no. 851.]
Size medium, form moderately robust. Fastigium of vertex
 moderately broad, but distinctly less than one and one-half times
 as broad as proximal antennal joint, surface cephalad flattened
 between the rounded lateral margins, ventrad forming with facial
 fastigium a conspicuous, transverse, linear suture. Face shining,
 weakly impresso-punctulate. Pronotum with cephalic margin of
 disk weakly but distinctly convex, cephalic sulcus broad but deep,
 as are the V-sulci of the lateral lobes; lateral lobes decidedly longer
 than deep, ventral margin straight, ventro-cephalic angle some-
 what truncate and rounded, ventro-caudal angle rounded and
 broadly truncate, humeral sinus broadly concave. Tegmina and
 wings fully developed, extending somewhat beyond apex of ab-
 domen. Tegmina narrowing very gradually from median point,
 with apex median and rather broadly rounded. Ovipositor elon-
 gate and extremely slender, very gently curved dorsad throughout;
 apical portion not enlarged, the immediate apex sharply rounded.
 Subgenital plate semicircular, the lateral portions swollen so that
 the surface is there convex. Cephalic and median tibiae armed
 with three pairs of moderately elongate spines, not including the
 small distal pair of spines. Caudal femora very stout and moder-
 ately short, ventral margins armed with (fourteen and sixteen)
 internal and (nine and ten) external spines.
110 Redia, VIII, p. 306, (1912).
286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Head clay color, the face and vertex tinged with tawny, the
 ocelli straw yellow. Antennae ochraceous-tawny. Pronotum dark,
 mummy brown, paling slightly mesad on disk and lateral lobes to
 mars brown. Tegmina and wings transparent, the veins and
 veinlets buckthorn brown; tegmina very faintly suffused with
 buckthorn brown meso-proximad. Limbs immaculate, pale clay
 color, the spines of the caudal limbs tipped with blackish chestnut-
 brown. Abdomen clay color, the sternites each with a large patch
 of chestnut-brown on each side. Ovipositor hazel, becoming clay
 color proximad.
Length of body 34.5, width of vertex 1.9, length of pronotum 7,
 length of tegmen 32.5, median width of tegmen 10.7, length of
 cephalic femur 10, length of caudal femur 18.7, length of longest
 cephalic tibial spine 2.2, length of ovipositor 24 mm.
STENOPELMAT1NAE
 Bugajus couloni (Saussure) Plate XXI, figure 12.
1861. Anostostoma couloni Saussure, Ann. Soc. Ent. France, (4), I, p. 490,
 pi. XII, figs. 1, la to lc. [ 9 , Java.]
Obi Island, Moluccas, 1 d 71 .
The subgenital plate of the previously unknown male of this
 extraordinary insect is here figured. The supra -anal plate is
 vertical and almost wholly concealed.
In the present specimen the tegmina and anterior field of the
 wings are suffused with buckthorn brown to near the free margins.
Length of body 58, width of head 10.8, least (dorsal) width of
 vertex 1, greatest (ventral) width of vertex 1.7, length of pro-
 notum 9.3; length of tegmen 40, greatest width of tegmen 19.8,
 length of cephalic femur 13.3, length of caudal femur 22.8 mm.
RHAPHIDOPHORINAE
 Rhaphidophora gracilis Brunner.
1888. Rhaphidophora gracilis Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien,
 XXXV1I1, p. 297. [<?, 9; Guimid Island, Samar, Philippine
 Islands.]
Philippine Islands, 1 9 .
This specimen is uniformly colored, immaculate, the limbs
 becoming paler distad.
The fastigium of the vertex has the sulcus deepened into a
 chamber, so that the fastigium forms a conchate projection. The
 caudal femora are armed on the ventro-internal margin with a
 single minute, median spine. The caudal metatarsus almost
 equals the longest caudal tibial spur in length and is armed dorsad
 with (one and two) minute, distal spines. The female subgenital
 plate is, at its apex, produced in a very slender acute-angulate
 projection.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 287
Length of body 29 (shortened), length of pronotum 10.5, length
 of caudal femur 32.6, greatest width of caudal femur 7.8, length of
 caudal tibia 32, length of caudal tarsus 13, length of cercus 17.8,
 length of ovipositor 19.5 mm.
Rhaphidophora deusta Brunner.
1888. Rhaphidophora deusta Brunner, Verh. Zool.-bot. Ges. Wien, XXXVIII,
 p. 298. [<?, East India.]
Assam, 1 c?
This specimen agrees fully with Brunner's short description"
 The ventral margins of the caudal femora are unarmed.
Length of body 22.7 (shortened) length of pronotum 8, length
 of caudal femur 23.5, greatest width of caudal femur 6.2, length of
 caudal tibia 21, length of caudal tarsus 8.9, length of cercus 8.7 mm.
Rhaphidophora baeri Bolivar
1890. Raphidophora baeri Bolivar, Anal. Soc. Espan. Hist. Nat., XIX,
 p. 328. [ 9 ; Manila, Philippine Islands.]
Surigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands, (from C. F. Baker), 1 d*.
We make this assignment with some uncertainty, as Bolivar does
 not mention any limb maculation for baeri. In the present speci-
 men the limbs are pale brown, the cephalic and median femora
 suffused proximad and with a broad suffused annulus distad of
 dark brown. The caudal femora are heavily suffused with dark
 brown, so that everywhere except proximo-internally, only streaks
 and blotches of the paler coloration occur. The ventro-internal
 margins of the caudal femora are armed mesad each with two
 minute spines. The longest spur of the caudal tibiae about equals
 in length the caudal metatarsus, the latter being armed with (five)
 minute spines dorsad.
Length of body 27.5, length of pronotum 8.5, length of caudal
 femur 26.3, greatest width of caudal femur 7, length of caudal
 tibia 25.8, length of caudal tarsus 11, length of cercus 9.8 mm.
The geographical distribution of the species here considered, is
shown by the following list and index.
Mal- Melan- Austral-
 Name op Species. Page. ayan. esian. ian.
Elimaea insignis (Walker) 122 Assam
Elimaea annamensis new species 122 *
Elimaea lamellipes new species 124 *
Elimaea bakeri new species 125 *
Elimaea filicauda new species 127 *
Elimaea parumpunctata (Serville) 129 *
Elimaea rosec-alata Brunner 130 *
288
Name of Species. Page.
Mirollia aeta new species 130
Mirollia cerciata new species 131
Ducetia thymifolia (Fabricius) 133
Prohimerta annamensis new species 134
Letana brunneri (Krausze) 135
 Scambophyllum albomarginatum new species 136
 Scambophyllum sanguineolentum (Westwood) 137
Scambophyllum sandakanae new species 137
Acrypeza reticulara Guerin 139
Leptodera omalipennis Serville' 139
Ancylecha fenestrata (Fabricius) 139
Phygela haani Stal 140
Arnobia pilipes (Haan) 140
Tapiena cerciata new species 140
Casigneta cochleata Brunner 142
Casigneta lamellosa Brunner 142
Casigneta pellucida Brunner 142
Elbenia tenera Brunner 143
Elbenia nigro-signata Stal 143
Elbenia makilingae new species 143
Elbenia serraticauda new species 144
Furnia bakeri Karny 146
Phaula rugulosa Brunner 146
Phaula phaneropleroides Brunner 147
Phaula luzonica new species 147
Phaula galeata new species 149
Stictophaula bakeri new species 150
Stictophaula quadridens new species 152
Stictophaula micra new species 153
Psyra brunneri Karny 154
Psyra mclanonota Stal 154
Pseudopsyra mirabilis new species 155
Holochlora venosa Stal 156
Holochlora mindanao new species 156
Holochlora signata Brunner 157
Holochlora fusco-spinosa Brunner 158
Holochlora maxima new species 158
Holochlora javanica Brunner 159
Eulophophyllum thaumasium new species 160
Sympaestria lampra new species 161
Dysmorpha obesa Brunner 163
Liotrachela cryptisema new species 164
Liotrachela minuta Brunner 165
Liotrachela iliganae new species 165
Diastella rnaculata new species 169
Paracaedicia serrata Brunner 170
Polichne parvicauda (Stal) 171
Ephippitytha trigintiduoguttata Serville 166
Caedicia gloriosa new species 166
Platycaedicia obiensis new species 168
Anerota subcarinata (Bolivar) 171
Anerota furcifera (Stal) 171
Anerota gracilis (Burmeister) 171
MECOPODINAE
Chloracantha lampra new species
 Mo&sula kiriwina new species
 Paradiaphlebus notatus (Brunner)
 Segestes vitlaticeps Stal
173
 174
 175
 176
Mal-
 ayan
 *
Melan- Austral-
esian. ian.
2X9
Name of Species.
Segestes frater new species
 Segestidea soror new species
 Sexava coriacea (Linnaeus)
 Characta labuanae new species
 Mecopoda elongala (Linnaeus)
 Eumecopoda reducta new species
 Eumecopoda cyrtoscelis (Karsch)
 Eumecopoda moluccarum (Griffini)
 Macrolyristes imperator Vollenhoven
 Hyperhomala woodfordi (Kirby)
 Phyllophora lanceolata Brunner
 Sasima truncata (Brunner)
Page.
177
 178
 180
 182
 183
 184
 185
 186
 187
 188
 lss
 ayan.
Melan- Austral.
PSEUDOPHYLL1NAE
Pseudophyllus harrisoni Rehn
 Cleandrus forlis (Walker)
 Cleandrus dyaka new species
 Cleandrus titan (White)
 Cleandrus colosseus new species
 Onomarchus leuconoius (Serville)
 Hapalophyllum vrazi (Bolivar)
 Temnophyllus speciosus Brunner
 Promeca unicolor Brunner
 Promeca quadripunctata Brunner
 Phyllomimus bakeri Karny
 Phyllomimus detersus (Walker)
 Phyllomimus ampidlaceus (Haan)
 Phyllomimus tonkinae new species
 Phyllomimus inquinatus Brunner
 Phyllozelus abbotti new species
 Gonyatopus gemmiculus new species
 Aprion atrolerminatus (Brunner)
 Despoina superba Brunner
 Despoina spinosa Brunner
 Tympanoptera grioleti P. and S.
 Togona philippina new species
 Morsimus albomarginalus new species
 Morsimus serraticollis Bolivar
 Chondroderella sexgutlata new species
 Sathrophyllia torrida Stal
 Sathrophyllia marmoraia Stal
 Olcinia erosijolia Stal
 Sanaa imptrialis (White)
 Typhoptera staudingeri (Brunner )
 Callimendlus fur nidus Walker
189 *
190 *
191 Assam, Burma
192 *
193 *
194 *
195 *
196 *
 196 *
 198 *
198 Tonkin
199 *
200 *
201 *
 203 *
203 *
204 *
204
205 *
206 *
 208
 209
210
 210
 211
 212
*?
Burma
Assam
Tonkin
Eppioides malaya new species
 Eppioides bicolor new species
 Oxystethus dyaka new species
 Oxyslethus intermedins Redtenbacher
 Oxystethus brevipennis Redtenbacher
 Oxylakis punctipennis Redtenbacher
 Anthracites major new species
 Anthracites zebra new species
 Anthracites apoensis new species
 Nicsara bifasciala (Redtenbacher)
 Nicsara taylori new species
213
 214
 215
 216
 217
 218
 220
 221
 222
290
Nicsara philippina new species 223
Nicsara ihoracica (Dohrn) 225
Nicsara bimaculata (Redtenbacher) 225
Rhytidogyne griffini Karny 225
Dicranocercus zamboangae new species 226
Macroxiphus vaginatus Pictet 227
Macroxiphus megapterus Brongniart 227
Acantfiocor yphus mindanensis neV species 227
Salomona nigripes new species 229
Salomona coriacea Redtenbacher 230
Salomona conspersa Stal 231
Salomona maculifrons Stal 231
Salomona guamensis new species 232
Salomona lita new species 233
Salomona ornata Brunner 234
Salomona lobaspoides Karny 235
COPIPHORINAE
Le&ina ensifer (Brulle) 235
Xeslophrys javanicus Redtenbacher 236
Pyrgocorphya philippina new species 236
Euconocephalus mdicus (Redtenbacher) 238
Euconocephalus picteti (Redtenbacher) 238
Euconocephalus varius (Walker) 238
Euconocephalus pallidus (Redtenbacher) 239
Euconocephalus nasutus (Thunberg) 240
Euconocephalus longiceps (Redtenbacher) 241
Euconocephalus gracilis (Redtenbacher) 241
Euconocephalus sobrinus (Bolivar) 242
CONOCEPHALINAE
Conocephalus modestus (Redtenbacher) 243
Conocephalus javanicus (Redtenbacher) 243
Conocephalus affinis (Redtenbacher) 243
Conocephalus maculatus (Le Gouillon) 243
Conocephalus laetus (Redtenbacher) 244
Conocephalus borneensis (Redtenbacher) 245
Conocephalus longipennis (Haan) 245
Conocephalus melas (Haan) 247
Conocephalus formosus (Redtenbacher) 247
Conocephalus vestitus (Redtenbacher) 247
Alloteratura penangiea new species 250
Alloteratura bakeri new species 251
Alloteratura xiphidiopsis (Karny) 252
Alloteratura sandakanae new species 253
Xiphidiopsis dicera new species 254
Xiphidiopsis cryptosticta new species 256
Xiphidiopsis drepanophora new species 257
Xiphidiopsis gemmiada new species 259
Xiphidiopsis aglaia new species 261
Euanisous teuthroides (Bolivar) 262
Phlugis thaumasia new species 263
I 'hi vis obicnsis new species 264
Phisis philippinarum Karny 265
/'hisis pectinata (Guerin) 266
Annam
 esian. ian.
Guam
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 291
 Name of Species. Page. ayan. esian. ian.
 Phisis acutipennis Carl
 Lipotactes maculatus new species
 Hexacentrus unicolor Serville
 Hexacentrus mundus (Walker)
 Euhexacenlrus annvlicornis (Stal)
Terpandrus splendidus new species
 Pachysagella maculata new species
Gryllacris arctata Walker
Gryllacris vitrea new species
Gryllacris nigrita new species
Gryllacris heros Gerstaecker
Gryllacris punctipennis gemmicula new subsp. 279 *
Gryllacris annulicornis new species 280  *
Gryllacris macroxiphus new species 282  *
Gryllacris fumigata Haan 283 *
Paragryllacris gnffinii new species 284   *
Papuogryllacris obiensis new species 285  *
STENOPELMATINAE
Bugajus couloni (Saussure) 286 * *
RHAPH1DOPHOMNAE
Rhaphidophora gracilis Brunner 286 *
Rhaphidophora deusta Brunner 287 Assam
Rhaphidophora baeri Bolivar 287 *
292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Explanation of Plates XI to XXII.
Plate XI.  Fig. 1. Elimaea annamensis new species. Male. Type. Phuc-
Son, Annam. Dorsal view of supra-anal plate. (Greatly enlarged.)
 Fig. 2. Elimaea annamensis new species. Male. Type. Phuc-Son, Annam.
Dorsal view of cercus. (Same scale as figure 1.)
 Fig. 3. Elimaea lamellipes new species. Female. Type. Labuan, British
North Borneo. Dorsal view of supra-anal plate. (Same scale as figure 1.)
 Fig. 4. Elimaea bakeri new species. Male. Typt. Davao, Mindanao,
Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of supra- anal plate. (Same scale as
figure 1.)
 Fig. 5. Elimaea bakeri new species. Male. Type. Davao, Mindanao,
Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of cercus. (Same scale as figure 1.)
 Fig. 6. Elimaea bakeri new species. Male. Type. Davao, Mindanao,
Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen. (X 6).
 Fig. 7. Elimaea fdicauda new species. Male. Type. Los Banos, Luzon,
Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen. (X 6.)
 Fig. 8. Elimaea parumpunciata (Serville). Male. Batu Sangkar, Sumatra.
 Fig. 9. Elimaea parumpunctata (Serville). Male. Batu Sangkar, Su-
 matra. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Greatly enlarged.)
 Fig. 10. Elimaea roseo-alala Brunner. Male. Goenong Soegi, Sumatra.
 Fig. 11. Elimaea roseo-alala Brunner. Male. Goenong Soegi, Sumatra.
Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Same scale as figure 9.)
 Fig. 12. Mirolha aeta new species. Male. Type. Dapitan, Mindanao,
Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of cercus. (Greatly enlarged.)
 Fig. 13. Mirollia aeta new species. Male. Type. Dapitan, Mindanao,
Philippine Islands. Ventral outline of produced portion of subgenital
plate. (Greatly enlarged.)
 Fig. 14. Mirollia cerciata new species. Male. Type. Labuan, British
North Borneo. Dorsal view of cercus. (Same scale as figure 12.)
 Fig. 15. Mirollia cerciata new species. Male. Type. Labuan, British
North Borneo. Ventral outline of produced portion of subgenital plate.
(Same scale as figure 13.)
 Fig. 16. Mirollia cerciata new species. Female. Allotype. Sandakan,
British North Borneo. Lateral view of ovipositor and subgenital plate.
.(X6.)
 Fig. 17. Prohimerta annamensis new species. Male. Type. Phuc-Son,
Annam. Lateral, outline. (X 1H-)
 Fig. 18. Prohimerta annamensis new species. Male. Type. Phuc-Son,
Annam. Dorsal view of cercus. (Same scale as figure 1.)
 Fig. 19. Prohimerta annamensis new species. Male. Type. Phuc-Son,
Annam. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Same scale as figure 1.)
 Fig. 20. Ancylecha fenestrata (Fabricius). Male. Sandakan, British North
Borneo. Dorsal view of cercus. (X 5^.)
 Fig. 21. Phygela haani Stal. Male. Singapore, British Straits Settle-
 ments. Dorsal view of cercus. (Greatly enlarged.)
 Fig. 22. Phygela haani Stal. Male. Singapore, British Straits Settle-
 ments. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Same scale as figure 21.)
 Fig. 23. Tapiena cerciata new species. Male. Type. Davao, Mindanao,
Philippine Islands. Lateral view of cercus. (X 5.)
 Fig. 24. Tapiena cerciata new species. Male. Type. Davao, Mindanao,
Philippine Islands. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (X 5.)
Plate XII.  Fig. 1. Scambophyllum albomarginaium new species. Female.
 Type. Labuan, British North Borneo. Dorsal view. (X \ X A-)
Fig. 2. Scambophyllum sandakanae new species. Female. Type. Sanda-
 kan, British North Borneo. Dorsal view. (X \ l A.)
Fisr. 3. Scambophyllum sandakanae new sDecies. Male. Allotype. San-
 dakan, British North Borneo. Dorsal outline. (X l l A-)
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 293
Fig. 4. Scambophyllum sandakenae new species. Male. Allotype. San-
 dakan, British North Borneo. Dorsal view of cercus. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 5. Holochlora maxima new species. Female. Type. Surigao, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Lateral view. (Natural size.)
Fig. 6. Eulophophyllum thaumasium new species. Female. Type. La-
 buan, British North Borneo. Lateral view. (X 1M-)
Fig. 7. Eulophophyllum thaumasium new species. Female. Type. La-
 buan, British North Borneo. Dorsal view. (X 1J-2-)
Plate XIII.  Fig. 1. Elbenia inakilingae new species. Female. Type. Mount
 Makiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of ovipositor and
 subgenital plate. (X 3.)
Fig. 2. Elbenia makilingae new species. Female. Type. Mount Makiling,
 Luzon, Philippine Islands. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Greatly
 enlarged.)
Fig. 3. Elbenia serraticauda new species. Male. Type. Puerto Princesa,
 Palawan, Philippine Islands. Caudal view of distal portion of abdomen.
 (X5.)
Fig. 4. Elbenia serraticauda new species. Male. Type. Puerto Princesa,
 Palawan, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen.
 ,(X5.)
Fig. 5. Phaula luzonica new species. Male. Type. Baguio, Luzon, Phi-
 lippine Islands. Dorsal view of stridulating field of sinistral tegmen.
 (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 6. Phaula luzonica new species. Male. Type. Baguio, Luzon,
 Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen. (Greatly
Fig. 7. Phaula luzonica new species. Female. Allotype. Baguio, Luz-
 on, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of ovipositor and subgenital plate.
 .(X4.)
Fig. 8. Phaula galeata new species. Male. Type. Davao, Mindanao,
 Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen. (Same
 scale as figure 6.)
Fig. 9. Phaula galeata new species. Male. Type. Davao, Mindanao,
 Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of cercus. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 10. Stictophaida bakeri new species. Male. Type. Singapore, Brit-
 ish Straits Settlements. Ventral outline of apex of subgenital plate.
Fig. 11. Stictophaida bakeri new species. Male. Type. Singapore, Brit-
 ish Straits Settlements. Dorsal view of stridulating field of sinistral
 tegmen. (Same scale as figure 5.)
Fig. 12. Stictophaula bakeri new species. Male. Type. Singapore, Brit-
 ish Straits Settlements. Lateral view of sinistral tegmen. (X 1%.)
Fig. 13. Stictophaula quadridens new species. Male. Type. Singapore,
 British Straits Settlements. Ventral outline of apex of subgenital plate.
 (Same scale as figure 10.)
Fig. 14. Stictophaula rnicra new species. Female. Type. Singapore,
 British Straits Settlements. Lateral view of sinistral tegmen. (X 1/4.)
Fig. 15. Stictophaula micra new species. Female. Type. Singapore,
 British Straits Settlements. Lateral view of ovipositor and subgenital
 plate. (X4.)
Fig. 16. Pseudopsyra mirabilis new species. Male. Type. Island of
 Penang, Malay Peninsula. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen.
 .(X3H-)
Fig. 17. Pseudopsyra mirabilis new species. Male. Type. Island of
 Penang, Malay Peninsula. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (X 33^.)
Fig. 18. Holochlora venosa Stal. Male. Singapore, British Straits Settle-
 ments. Lateral view of apex of abdomen. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 19. HolochlorajaponicaBrunner. Male. Shanghai, Kiang-Su, China.
 Lateral view of apex of abdomen. (Same scale as figure 18.)
Fig. 20. Holochlora mindanao new species. Male. Type. Davao, Min-
294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
danao, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of apex of abdomen. (Same
scale as figure 18.)
 Fig. 21. Holochlora mindanao new species. Male. Type. Davao, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Same
 Fig. 22. Holochlora mindanao new species. Female. Allotype. Zam-
boanga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Ventral outline of subgenital
 Fig. 23. Holochlora signata Brunner. Female. Goenong Soegi, Sumatra.
Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Same scale as figure 22.)
Plate XIV.  Fig. 1. Holochlora fuscc-spinosa Brunner. Male. Mount Ma-
 Idling, Luzon, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of apex of abdomen.
 (Greatly enlarged, same scale as Plate XIII, figure 18.)
Fig. 2. Holochlora fusco-spinesa Brunner. Female. Laguna Province,
 Luzon, Philippine Islands. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Same
 scale as figure 1.)
Fig. 3. Holochlora maxima new species. Female. Type. Surigao, Min-
Fig. 4. Holochlora javanica Brunner. Female. Sandakan, British North
 Borneo. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Same scale as figure 1.)
Fig. 5. Sympaeslria lampra new species. Female. Type. Labuan, Brit-
 ish North Borneo. Lateral outline of sinistral tegmen, showing only
 veins which are distinct, these very heavy and conspicuous. (Natural
 size.)
Fig. 6. Sympaeslria lampra new species. Male. Allotype. Labuan, Brit-
 veins which are distinct, these very heavy and conspicuous. 111 (Natural
Fig. 7. Liotrachela cryptisema new species. Female. Type. Davao, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of ovipositor and subgenital
 plate. (X 4.)
Fig. 8. Liotrachela iliganae new species. Male. Type. Uigan, Mindanao,
 Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen. (X 4 1 ,f>.)
Fig. 9. Liotrachela iliganae new species. Male. Type. Iligan, Mindanao,
Fig. 10. Liotrachela iliganae new species. Male. Type. Iligan, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (X 4 1 .-,.)
Fig. 11. Caedicia gloriosa new species. Male. Type. Townsville, Queens-
 land, Australia. Lateral outline. (X 1^2.)
Fig. 12. Caedicia gloriosa new species. Male. Type. Townsville, Queens-
 land, Australia. Dorsal view of cercus. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 13. Platycaedicia obiensis new species. Female. Type. Obi Island,
 Moluccas. Lateral outline. (X 1M-)
Fig. 14. Platycaedicia obiensis new species. Female. Type. Obi Island,
 Moluccas. Lateral view of ovipositor and subgenital plate. (Greatly
Fig. 15. Chlcracantha lampra new species. Male. Type. Townsville,
 Queensland, Australia. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen.
Fig. 16. Chloracantha lampra new species. Male. Type. Townsville,
 Queensland, Australia. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Same scale
 as figure 15.)
Fig. 17. Messula kiriwina new species. Male. Type. Kiriwina, Tro-
 briand Island, Melanesia. Dorsal view of cercus. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 18. Mossula kiriwina new species. Male. Type. Kiriwina, Tro-
 briand Island, Melanesia. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Greatly
 enlarged, but not as much so as figure 17.)
111 Venational abnormality is here indicated by the proximal fork of the first
 branch of the median vein, running directly into the ulnar vein.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 295
Plate XV.  Fig. 1. Diastella maculata new species. Female. Type. Fakfak,
Dutch New Guinea. Lateral view. (X 2.)
 Fig. 2. Chloracanlha lampra new species. Male. Type. Townsville,
Queensland, Australia. Dorsal view. (X 2.)
 Fig. 3. Eumecopoda cyrtoscelis (Karsch). Male. Setekwa River, Dutch
New Guinea. Lateral view of caudal femur. (Natural size.)
 Fig. 4. Tugona philippina new species. Female. Type. Surigao, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Lateral view. (X 1A-)
 Fig. 5. Morsimus albomarginatus new species. Female. Type. Labuan,
British North Borneo. Lateral view. (X \ X A-)
 Fig. 6. Chondroderella sexguttata new species. Male. Type. Singapore,
British Straits Settlements. Lateral view. (X 13^2-)
 Fig. 7. Nicsara iaylori new species. Female. Type. Polillo Island,
Luzon, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of pronotum. (X 2J^.)
 Fig. 8. Nicsara philippina new species. Male. Type. Mount Makiling,
Luzon, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of pronotum. (X 2A-)
 Fig. 9. Nicsara thoracica (Dohrn). Male. Obi Island, Moluccas. Dorsal
view of pronotum. (X 2j^.)
 Fig. 10. Xiphidiopsis gemmicula new species. Male. Type. Surigao,
Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of pronotum. (X 7 X A-)
 Fig. 11. Xiphidiopsis aglaia new species. Male. Type. Island of Ba-
silan, Zamboanga Province, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of pro-
 notum. (X7K-)
 Fig. 12. Lipotactes maculatus new species. Female. Type. Singapore,
British Straits Settlements. Lateral view. (X 3H-)
Plate XVI.  Fig. 1. Paradiaphlebus notatus (Brunner) . Female. Obi Island,
 Moluccas. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 2. Segestes frater new species. Female. Type. Obi Island, Moluccas.
 Lateral outline. (Natural size.)
Fig. 3. Segestidea soror new species. Female. Type. Obi Island, Mo-
 luccas. Lateral outline. (Natural size.)
Fig. 4. Segestidea soror new species. Male. Allotype. Obi Island, Mo-
 luccas. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 5. Characta labuanae new species. Female. Type. Labuan, British
 North Borneo. Lateral outline. (Natural size.)
Fig. 6. Eumecopoda reducta new species. Male. Type. Butuan, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Lateral outline. (Natural size.)
Fig. 7. Eumecopoda cyrtoscelis (Karsch). Male. Setekwa River, Dutch
 New Guinea. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 8. Eumecopoda moluccarum (Griffini). Male. Obi Island, Moluccas.
 Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 9. Eumecopoda moluccarum (Griffini). Female. Obi Island, Mo-
Fig. 10. Cleandrus dyaka new species. Male. Type. Sandakan, British
 North Borneo. Lateral outline of caudal femur. (X 13^0
Fig. 11. Cleandrus dyaka new species. Male. Type. Sandakan, British
 North Borneo. Lateral outline of caudal tibia. (X 1/4-)
Fig. 12. Cleandrus colosseus new species. Male. Type. Sandakan, Brit-
 ish North Borneo. Dorsal view of tegmen. ( T % natural size.)
Fig. 13. Cleandrus colosseus new species. Male. Type. Sandakan, British
 North Borneo. Lateral outline of caudal femur. (X lJ^O
Plate XVII.  Fig. 1. Temnophyllus speciosus Brunner. Male. Labuan,
 British North Borneo. Dorsal view of tegmen. (Natural size.)
Fig. 2. Phyllomimus bakeri Karny. Female. Los Bafios, Luzon, Philip-
 pine Islands. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 1K-)
Fig. 3. Phyllomimus detersus (Walker). Female. Mount Makiling, Lu-
 zon, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 13^.)
Fig. 4. Phyllomimus tonkinae new species. Male. Type. Than-Moi,
 Tonkin. Dorsal view of tegmen. (X 1H-)
296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXXIV
Fig. 5. Gonyatopus gemmiculus new species. Male. Type. Labuan, Brit-
 ish North Borneo. Dorsal view of tegmen. (X 1M-)
Fig. 6. Gonyatopus gemmiculus new species. Male. Type. Labuan,
 British North Borneo. Lateral view of cephalic coxal spine. (Greatly
Fig. 7. Gonyatopus gemmiculus new species. Male. Type. Labuan, Brit-
 ish North Borneo. Ventral view of subgenital plate and styles. (Greatly
Fig. 8. Morsimus albomarginatus new species. Female. Type. Labuan,
 British North Borneo. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 1H-)
Fig. 9. Morsimus albomarginatus new species. Female. Type. Labuan,
 British North Borneo. Compound spinula distad on ventro- external
 margin of caudal femur. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 10. Morsimus albomarginatus new species. Female. Type. Labuan,
 British North Borneo. Compound spinula on dorsal margin of caudal
 tibia. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 11. Morsimus albomarginatus new species. Female. Type. Labuan,
 British North Borneo. Microscopic specialization in place of spinulae
 on ventral margin of caudal tibia. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 12. Olcinia erosifolia Stal. Male. Labuan, British North Borneo.
 Dorsal outline of cercus. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 13. Eppioides malaya new species. Female. Type. Labuan, Brit-
 ish North Borneo. Lateral outline of pronotum. (X 2%.)
Fig. 14. Eppioides malaya new species. Female. Type. Labuan, British
 North Borneo. Lateral outline of tegmen. (X 1%-)
Fig. 15. Eppioides bicolor new species. Female. Type. Jelabu, British
 Straits Settlements. Dorsal view of fastigium of vertex. (Much en-
 larged.)
Fig. 16. Eppioides bicolor new species. Female. Type. Jelabu, British
 Straits Settlements. Lateral outline of pronotum. (X 2}4.)
Fig. 17. Eppioides bicolor new species. Female. Type. Jelabu, British
 Straits Settlements. Lateral outline of tegmen. (X 1J4-)
Fig. 18. Oxystethus dyaka new species. Female. Type. Sandakan, Brit-
 ish North Borneo. Lateral outline. (X 134-)
Fig. 19. Anthracites major new species. Male. Type. Surigao, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Lateral outline. (X 1M-)
Fig. 20. Phisis obiensis new species. Female. Type. Obi Island, Mo-
 luccas. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 21. Euhexacentrus annulicomis (Stal). Female. Butuan, Mindanao,
 Philippine Islands. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 3.)
Plate XV111.  Fig. 1. Anthracites zebra new species. Male. Type. Mount
Apo, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of cercus. (Greatly
enlarged.)
 Fig. 2. Anthracites zebra new species. Male. Type. Mount Apo, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much
 Fig. 3. Anthracites apoensis new species. Male. Type. Mount Apo,
Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of cercus. (Same scale as
 Fig. 4. Anthracites apoensis new species. Male. Type. Mount Apo,
Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Same
scale as figure 2.)
 Fig. 5. Nicsara laylori new species. Female. Type. Polillo Island,
Luzon, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 1M-)
 Fig. 6. Nicsara philippina new species. Male. Type. Mount Maki'ing,
Luzon, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of cercus. (Greatly enlarged.)
 Fig. 7. Nicsara philippina new species. Female. Allotype. Polillo
Island, Luzon, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 1K-)
 Fig. S. Dicranocercus zamboangae new species. Male. Type. Zambo-
anga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Lateral outline. (X 1H-)
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 297
Fig. 9. Dicranoccrcus zamboangae new species. Male. Type. Zambo-
 anga, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Ventrolateral view of cercus.
Fig. 10. Acanthocoryphus mindanensis new species. Female. Type. Su-
 rigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Lateral outline. (X 1M-)
Fig. 11. Acanthocoryphus mindanensis new species. Female. Type. Su-
 rigao, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Lateral outline of fastigium of
 vertex. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 12. Salomona nigripes new species. Female. Type. Setekwa River,
 Dutch New Guinea. Lateral outline. (Natural size.)
Fig. 13. Salomona lita new species. Male. Type. Obi Island, Moluc-
 cas. Internal view of cercus. (Greatly enlarged.)
PLATE XIX.  Fig. 1. Alloteratura penangica new species. Male. Type.
 Island of Penang, British Straits Settlements. Lateral outline. (X 4)
Fig. 2. Alloteratura penangica new species. Male. Type. Island of Pen-
 ang, British Straits Settlements. Dorsal view of distal portion of abdo-
 men. (Greatly enlarged)
Fig. 3. AlloUratura penangica new species. Male. Type. Island of Pen-
 ang, British Straits Settlements. Ventral view of distal portion of ab-
 domen. (Same scale as figure 2.)
Fig. 4. Alloteratura bakeri new species. Male. Type. Dapitan, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen.
 (Same scale as figure 2.)
Fig. 5. Alloteratura bakeri new species. Male. Type. Dapitan, Min-
 danao, Philippine Islands. Ventral view of distal portion of abdomen.
Fig. 6. Alloteratura xiphidiopsis (Karny). Male. Topotype. Mount Ma-
 kiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands. Ventral view of distal portion of ab-
Fig. 7. Alloteratura xiphidiopsis (Karny). Male. Topotype. Mount Ma-
 kiling, Luzon, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of ab-
Fig. 8. Alloteratura sandakanae new species. Female. Type. Sandakan,
 British North Borneo. Internal lateral outline of cephalic tibia. (Greatly
Fig. 9. Alloteratura sandakanae new species. Female. Type. Sandakan,
 British North Borneo. Ventral outline of subgenital plate. (Greatly
Fig. 10. Xiphidiopsis dicera new species. Male. Type. Singapore, Brit-
 ish Straits Settlements. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen.
Fig. 11. Xiphidiopsis dicera new species. Male. Type. Singapore, Brit-
 ish Straits Settlements. Ventral view of distal portion of abdomen.
Fig. 12. Xiphidiopsis dicera new species. Female. Allotype. Island of
 Penang, British Straits Settlements. Ventral outline of subgenital plate.
 (Same scale as figure 9.)
Fig. 13. Xiphidiopsis cryptosticta new specieS|. Female. Type. Singa-
 pore, British Straits Settlements. Ventral outline of subgenital plate.
Fig. 14. Xiphidiopsis drepanophora new species. Female. Allotype. Dapitan,
 Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Ventral outline of subgenital plate.
Plate XX.  Fig. 1. Xiphidiopsis drepanophora new species. Male. Type.
 Kolambugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of distal portion
 of abdomen.
 Fig. 2. Xiphidiopsis drepanophora new species. Male. Type. Kolam-
 bugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of
 abdomen.
298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Vol. LXX1V
Fig. 3. Xiphidiopsis drepanophora new species. Male. Type. Kolam-
bugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Ventral view of distal portion of
abdomen.
 Fig. 4. Xiphidiopsis drepanophora new species. Male. Type. Kolam-
bugan, Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of cercus.
 Fig. 5. Xiphidiopsis gemmicula new species. Male. Type. Surigao,
Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of distal portion of abdomen.
 Fig. 6. Xiphidiopsis gemmicula new species. Male. Type. Surigao,
Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of abdomen.
 Fig. 7. Xiphidiopsis gemmicula new species. Male. Type. Surigao,
Mindanao, Philippine Islands. Ventral view of distal portion of abdomen.
 Fig. 8. Xiphidiopsis aglaia new species. Male. Type. Island of Basilan,
Zamboanga Province, Philippine Islands. Dorsal view of distal portion of
 Fig. 9. Xiphidiopsis aglaia new species. Male. Type. Island of Basilan,
Zamboanga Province, Philippine Islands. Lateral view of distal portion of
 Fig. 10. Xiphidiopsis aglaia new species. Male. Type. Island of Ba-
 silan, Zamboanga Province, Philippine Islands. Ventral view of distal
portion of abdomen.
[All of the figures on plate XX are greatly enlarged, to the same scale.]
Plate XXI.  Fig. 1. Pyrgocorypha philippina new species. Male. Type.
 Baguio, Luzon, Philippine Islands. Lateral outline of head and pronotum.
 ,(X2.)
Fig. 2. Phlugis thaurnasia new species. Male. Type. Singapore, Brit-
 ish Straits Settlements. Dorsal view of apex of abdomen. (Much
Fig. 3. Phlugis thaurnasia new species. Male. Type. Singapore, British
 Straits Settlements. Lateral view of apex of abdomen. (Same scale as
 figure 2.)
Fig. 4. Phlugis thaurnasia new species. Male. Type. Singapore, Brit-
 ish Straits Settlements. Ventral view of apex of abdomen. (Same scale
 as figure 2.)
Fig. 5. Phisis acutipennis Carl. Female. Singapore, British Straits
 Settlements. Specialized and concave ventral surface of longest cephalic
 tibial spine. (Greatly enlarged.)
Fig. 6. Terpandrus splendidus new species. Female. Type. Yerilla,
 West Australia. Lateral view. (Natural size.)
Fig. 7. Pachysagella maculata new species. Male. Type. South Au-
 stralia. Cephalic view of head. (X 2.)
Fig. 8. Pachysagella maculata new species. Male. Type. South Au-
 stralia. Dorsal view of cercus. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 9. Gryllacris vitrea new species. Male. Type. Labuan, British
 North Borneo. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 10. Gryllacris punctipennis gemmicula new subspecies. Male. Type.
 Obi Island, Moluccas. Dorsal view of wing. (X 2.)
Fig. 11. Paragryllacris griffinii new species. Male. Type. Queensland,
 Australia. Ventral view of subgenital plate. (Much enlarged.)
Fig. 12. Bugajus couloni (Saussure). Male. Obi Island, Moluccas.
 Ventral view of subgenital plate. (X 5.)
Plate XXII.  Fig. 1. Salomona guamensis new species. Female. Type.
 Island of Guam. Cephalic view of head. (X 2.)
Fig. 2. Pachysagella maculata new species. Male. Type. South Aus-
 tralia. Dorsal view. (X 2.)
Fig. 3. Pachysagella maculata new species. Female. Allotype. South
 Australia. Dorsal view. (X 2.)
Fig. 4. Pachysagella maculata new species. Female. Allotype. South
 Australia. Lateral view. (X 2.)
NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 299
Fig. 5. Gryllacris nigrita new species. Female. Type. Labuan, British
North Borneo. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 2J^.)
 Fig. 6. Gryllacris annulicornis new species. Female. Type. Obi Island,
Moluccas. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 2^.)
 Fig. 7. Gryllacris macroxiphus new species. Female. Allotype. Obi
Island, Moluccas. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 2^.)
 Fig. 8. Papuogryllacris obiensis new species. Female. Type. Obi Island,
Moluccas. Lateral view of ovipositor. (X 23^ )
ABSTRACTS OF THE MINUTES OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES
OF PHILADELPHIA
January 17.
The President, John Cadwalader, A. M.,LL.D., in the Chair.
Twenty-six persons present.
The deaths of William West Frazier, and Mrs. Amelia D. Hock-
 ley, members, were announced.
Mr. Henry W. Fowler made a communication entitled: "Fishes
 of the Southern Alleghanies" (No abstract).
The Council reported the appointment by the President of the
 following Committees for 1923: On Finance,  Effingham B. Morris,
 Chairman, George L. Harrison, Jr., Walter Horstmann, Morgan
 Hebard, and George Vaux, Jr. On Publications,  Henry Skinner,
 Chairman, Witmer Stone, Henry A. Pilsbry, William J. Fox, and
 Milton J. Greenman. On Library,  Henry Tucker, Frank J.
 Keeley, T. Chalkley Palmer, Witmer Stone, Chairman, and Spencer
 Trotter. On Instruction,  Henry Skinner, Chairman, Charles
 Morris, George Spencer Morris, Henry A. Pilsbry, and James A. G.
 Rehn. And the following Special Committees: On Policy,
 Edwin G. Conklin, Chairman, Richard A. F. Penrose, Jr., Milton
 J. Greenman, J. Percy Moore.. George Vaux, Jr., G. E. de Schwein-
 itz, Witmer Stone, Effingham B. Morris and George L. Harrison,
 Jr. On Hayden Memorial Medal Award,  Richard A. F. Penrose,
 Jr., Chairman, Edgar T. Wherry, Henry Fairfield Osborn, Charles
 D. Walcott, and John M. Clarke. On By-Laws,  Spencer Trotter,
 Chairman, Charles B. Penrose, and Walter Horstmann. On Nomin-
 ation of Correspondents,  Henry Skinner, Chairman, Witmer
 Stone, and J. Percy Moore.
Mrs. Samuel F. Houston, Mrs. Matilda C. Markoe, Mrs. Harry
 F. West, Mrs. S. P. Wetherill, Jr., Miss Helen Brooks Shriver,
 Roland L. Taylor and Henry S. Williams, were elected members.
 Levi W. Mengel, Associate Member. George Vaux [X], and Henry
 James Vaux, Junior Members.
(301)
302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [LXXIV
February 21.
The President, John Cadwalader, A. M., LL.D., in the Chair.
Fifty-nine persons present.
The deaths of F. A. Hassler, William Welsh Welsh, and George
 Roberts, were announced.
Dr. Edwin G. Conklin made a communication entitled: "The
 Biological Effects of Immigration." (No abstract).
Theodore W. Bouchelle, Charles Fearon, Alfred Jordan, Joseph
 Y. Jeanes, Henry Leffman, Charles P. Perkins, Thomas C. Potts,
 Evan Randolph, L. C. Mills, and George C. Thayer, were elected
 members.
The Publication Committee reported the receipt of the following
 papers for the Proceedings:
"The Scrophulariaceae of Cuba," by Francis W. Pennell.
"A New Owl from the Bridger Formation," by Alexander
 Wetmore.
"Notes on the Radula of the Neritidae," by H. Burrington Baker.
"Osteology of the Tegu," by A. M. Reese.
"Notes on the Crocodilia of British Guiana," by A. M. Reese.
March 21.
The President, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., in the Chair.
Twenty-nine persons present.
Mr. Samuel G. Gordon made a communication entitled: "A
 Mineralogist in the Andes" (No abstract).
Miss Sophia Cadwalader, Miss M. H. Cadwalader, Miss Eleanor
 Tatum Long, Samuel N. Lewis, H. Pearce Lakin, and Walter
 Mendelson, were elected members.
April 18.
Forty-two persons present.
The death of George Spencer Morris, a member, was announced.
Dr. C. Montague Cooke, made a communication entitled:
 "Palmyra Island, a Pacific Coral Atoll." (No abstract).
William Henry Skinner, Frank J. Psota, and John P. Carter.,
 were elected members.
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 303
June 20.
Adjourned meeting from April 18, 1922.
 Eighteen members present.
The deaths of James S. Whitney, James E. Lennon, Joseph
 Trimble Rothrock, and Louis H. Eisenlohr, were announced.
The following new members were elected: Francis Heed Adler,
 Francis 0. Allen, Jr., Joshua L. Baily. Jr., John Bancroft, Samuel
 H. Barker, John Hampton Barnes, Leonard T. Beale, Stanley
 Bright, Joseph H. Bromley, Carolus M. Broomall, William Findlay
 Brown, Orville H. Bullitt, Miss Martha Bunting, Daniel H.
 Carstairs, Miss M. E. Converse, Henry B. Coxe, Robert M. Coyle,
 Theodore W. Cramp, James H. R. Cromwell, Samuel M. Curwen,
 William D. Disston, Franklin D'Olier, Helen Kitchen D'Olier,
 Irenee DuPont, William M. Elkins, William Struthers Ellis,
 George K. Erben, Thomas T. Firth, N. T. Folwell, Frank B. Foster,
 Mrs. L. Webster Fox, Samuel M. Freeman, Mrs. H. H. Furness,
 Jr., Arthur Howell Gerhard, Frank T. Griswold, S. R. Guggenheim,
 Mary Ingalls Harrison, William H. Hart, R. Wistar Harvey, W. E.
 Hering, Charles E. Hires, George Gowen Hood, John J. Howard,
 Mrs. H. M. Howe, Miss A. P. Hutchinson, Daniel L. Hutchinson,
 Jr., Edward M. Jefferys, Edward Hine Johnson, Livingston E.
 Jones, Francis Fisher Kane, Archibald C. Knowles, Mrs. Arthur
 H. Lea, Elisha Lee, John C. Lowry, Thomas McCrae, Mrs. George
 D. McCreary, Mrs. Charles J. Mcllvain, Jr., Walter S. Mclnnes,
 Charles Adsit Magruder, John C. Martin, Jules E. Mastbaum,
 Matthew F. Maury, Mrs. Richard Wain Meirs, Francis F. Milne,
 Jr., Samuel W. Morris, Mrs. Samuel W. Morris, John S. Newbold,
 C. Edgar Ogden, George R. Packard, T. H. Hoge Patterson,
 George Wharton Pepper, T. Morris Perot, Jr., Byron J. Pickering,
 George D. Porter, Mrs. Francis L. Potts, Thomas Harris Powers,
 Thomas deQ. Richardson, George S. Robbins, Frank C. Roberts,
 J. Clifford Rosengarten, Mrs. Edgar Scott, Edward A. Selliez,
 T. Wilson Sharpless, Charles K. Shaw, Mrs. George C. Thomas,
 M. Carey Thomas, John B. Townsend, Samuel Tobias Wagner,
 Alfred S. Weill, William H. Wetherill, Miss Marion B. Wood,
 Alexander S. Gross.
304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [LXXIV
Junior Members: Edward P. Bromley, Henry S. Bromley, Jr.,
 Anne Conrad D'Olier, Franklin D'Olier, Jr., Helen Kitchen
 D'Olier (Jr.), John M. Fisher, Jr.
November 21.
Ninety-nine persons present.
The deaths of Miss Anna W. Pearsell, Charles Morris, and
 Thomas DeWitt Cuyler, were announced.
Mr. Wharton Huber made a communication entitled: "The
 Academy Nicaraguan Expedition of 1922" (No abstract.)
The following new members were elected: Frank Battles,*
 Charles Biddle, Charles Day, Miss Mary A. Dobbins, Stanley
 Folz, Mrs. John Fritsche, John T. Garman, Frank Hart, William
 E. Helme, Fred. B. Hurlburt, Miss H. F. Merrick, L. I. Morris,
 Stanley P. Reimann, William L. Saunders, 2nd., Monroe B.
 Snyder, J. Stogdell Stokes, Robert J. Titherington, Carroll S.
 Tyson, Jr., Mrs. Carroll S. Tyson, Jr., F. King Wainwright,
 Clarence A. Warden, Edward E. Wildman, De Forest P. Willard,
 Joseph Lapsley Wilson.
Nomination for Officers, Councillors, and members of the
 Committee on Accounts for the ensuing year were made.
"Studies in Malayan, Melanesian, and Australian Tettigoniidae
 (Orthoptera) " by Morgan Hebard.
" Crystallographic Notes on Willemite, Celestite, and Calcite
 from Franklin, New Jersey," by Samuel G. Gordon.
"Keeleyite, a New Lead Sulantimonite from Oruro, Bolivia,"
 by Samuel G. Gordon.
"Fishes from Nicaragua," by Henry W. Fowler.
"Fishes from Madeira," by Henry W. Fowler.
"Mollusca of the Southwestern States, XI," by Henry A.
 Pilsbry.
December 19, 1922.
The Vice-President, Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., in the Chair.
 Seventeen persons present.
* Since deceased
1922] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 305
Officers, Councillors, and members of the Committee on Accounts
 were elected for the ensuing year as follows:
President Richard A. F. Penrose, Ph.D.
Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D.
Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D.
Recording Secretary James A. G. Rehn.
Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D.
Treasurer George Vaux, Jr.
Librarian Spencer Trotter, M.D.
Curators Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D.
Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D.
George L. Harrison, Jr.
T. Chalkely Palmer.
 Councillors to Serve Three
Years John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D.
Robert G. LeConte, M.D.
Morgan Hebard.
 Councillor to Fill Term of
Charles Morris (deceased) . .Henry Tucker, M.D.
 Committee on Accounts Roswell C. Williams, Jr.
Samuel X. Rhoads.
John G. Rothermel.
Thomas S. Stewart. M.D.
Walter Horstmann.
 Annual Reports were received from the Recording Secretary,
 Corresponding Secretary, Librarian, Treasurer, auditors of the
 Treasurer's accounts, Treasurer of the "Manual of Conchology,"
 ( 'urator of the William S. Vaux Collections, and from the following
 sections: Biological and Microscopical, Entomological, and Miner-
 alogical and Gelogical. The Ornithological Section reported pro-
 gress, and the dissolution of the Botanical Section was reported.
The report of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geo-
 logical Award recommending Professor Alfred Lacroix, President
 of the Societe Geologique de France as the recipient of the gold
 medal for 1923, was approved unanimously.
Alfred Lacroix was born February 4, 1863, at Macon, province
 of Saone-et-Loire, France. He was educated at the Lycee of
 Macon, at the Sorbonne, and at the College de France, attaining
 in 1889 the degree of Docteur es sciences. In 1887, he became
306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [LXXIV
Preparateur au College de France; in 1893, Professeur at the
 Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, and in 1896 Director of the Labora-
 toire de Mineralogie, Ecole des Hautes Etudes. In 1892, and again
 in 1903, he was made Laureat de 1' Institute; and in 1904 was elected
 a member of the Academie des Sciences, section de Mineralogie.
 Ten years later he became Secretaire perpetual of the section of
 Physics of the Academie. He has also been created Chevalier de
 la Legion d'Honneur. He is a member of numerous learned
 societies in France and elsewhere, and has headed many scientific
 missions in all parts of the world. His last visit to this continent
 was in 1913, when he attended the meetings of the Internationa]
 Geological Congress in Canada, and subsequently visited many
 colleagues in the United States. He also took an active part in
 the International Geological Congress held in Belgium in 1922,
 where his eminence in his science was universally recognized.
At the early age of 25 he collaborated with Professor A. Michel-
 Levy in the preparation of an important book, Les Mineraux des
 Roches, (334 pages, Paris, 1888). The first of the five volumes of
 his great work, Mineralogie de la France et ses Colonies, appeared in
 1893; the fifth and final one in 1902; and recently this has been
 supplemented by an elaborate Mineralogie de Madagascar (1922).
 Other important volumes from his pen are Les enclaves des roches
 volcaniques (1893), and La Montague Pelee et ses eruptions (1904).
In addition to these and other books he has contributed numerous
 papers to various scientific journals and proceedings of scientific
 societies, many of them announcing important discoveries in
 geology, petrology, and mineralogy.
These include the proposal of about forty -seven mineral names;
 the reinvestigation and characterization of a large number of in-
 completely described species. The mineral "Lacroixite" was
 named in honor of Professor Lacroix by F. Slavik in 1914.
Over forty rock minerals and other petrographic terms are due to
 Professor Lacroix; and he has made extensive studies of the phe-
 nomena of contact metamorphism, endomorphic metamorphism,
 and numerous other similar phenomena.
A resolution of appreciation of the services of Mr. John Cad-
 walader, the retiring President, was unanimously adopted by a
 rising vote.
307
INDEX TO GENERA AND SPECIES DESCRIBED AND
 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1922
New species and genera are indicated by heavy-faced numerals.
Abramis crysoleucas 7-9, 14, 20
Acanthaprion 189
Acanthocorphus mindanensis .... 227
Achirus fasciatus 7
Acipenser sturio 6
Acrypeza reticulata 139
Agriolimax sp 97
Alcadia 44, 46, 47
Alopias vulpinus 3
Alloteratura 249
bakeri. 251
penangica 260
sandakanae 253
xiphidiopsis 252
Alosa sapidissima 6
Alutera schoepfi 6
Ambloplites rupestris 22
Ameiurus catus 7, 14
natalis 3, 22, 23
nebulosus 7, 8, 11, 20
AnaJcadia 47
Anchovia mitchilli 4, 6
Ancylecha fenestrata 139
Anerota 150
furcifera 171
gracilis 171
subcarinata 171
Anguilla rostrata 3, 4, 6-8, 10
Angulata 49
Anodonta californiensis 75
Anthracites apoensis 220
major 217
zebra 218
Aphanoconia (Sphaeroconia) vere-
cunda 43
Aphredoderus sayanus 3
Apomotis cyanellus 23
Aprion 188
terminatus 203
Arlina effulgens 11
Arnobia pilipes 140
Astroscopus guttatus 7
Bairdiella chrysura 4, 6, 8
Balistes carolinensis 6
Boleosoma nigrum 10, 11, 21, 25
n. effulgens 10
olmstedi 10, 11
stigmaeum 21
Bourciera 40
Brevoortia tyrannus 4, 6
Bugajus couloni 286
Caedicia gloriosa 166
Calcite Ill, 112
Calleida 60
Callimenellus 189
fumidus 212
Calybium 58, 64
Campostoma anomalum
9, 13, 20, 22, 23
Capnoptera 189
Caranx crysos 6
Carcharias taurus 2, 5, 7
Casigneta cochleata 142
lamellosa 142
pellucida 142
Catostomus commersonnii 2, 3, 9
nigricans 9, 11, 18, 21, 24
rhothoecus 9
Cecidophaga 248
Celestite 110, 111
Centropristis striatus, 3, 5, 6, 8
Ceratichthys vigilax 22, 24
Cetorhinus maximus 3
Chaenobryttus gulosus 20, 22
Chaetodipterus faber 6
Chaetodon ocellatus 6
Characta labuanae 180
Chilomycterus schoepfi 5, 6
Chloracantha 3 72
lampra 173
Chloracris 189
Chloroxiphidion 242
Chondroderella 208
sexguttata 209
Chrosomus oreas 9, 11, 12
Cleandrus colosseus 192
308
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Oh'
[LXXIV
( Jleandrus dyaka 190
fortis 189
titan 19]
Conger conger 6
Conocephalus 242
(Chloroxiphidion) affinis 243
(Xiphidion) borneensis 245
Xiphidion) formosns 247
(Chloroxiphidion) javanicus . 243
(Xiphidion) laetus 244
(Xiphidion) longipennis 245
(Xiphidion) maculatus 243
(Xiphidion) melas 247
(Chloroxiphidion) modestus. . 243
(Xiphidion) vestitus 247
Coryphaena hippurus 4
Cottus bairdii 14, 21
Cubaviana 60
Cyclopterus lumpus 6
Cynoscion nebulosus 3-6, 8
Cyprinodon variegatus 4
Dasyatis say 6, 7
Dawsonella 43
Despoina spinosa 204
superba 203
Diastella maculata 169
Dicranocercus zamboangae 226
Diodon hystrix 5
Ducetia thymifolia 133
Dysmorpha obesa 163
Elbenia makilingae 143
manillensis 1 43
modesta 143
nigro-signata 143
serratieauda 144
tenefa. . . 143
Elimaea annamensis. . . 122
bakeri 125
filicauda 127
insignis 122
Iamellipes 124
parumpunctata 129
puncticostata 126
rosea-alata 130
Emoda 46, 55-57
Enneacanthus gloriosus. ......... 3, 8'
Ephippitytha trigintiduoguttata. . 166
Epiphragmophora 85
bowersi 74, 86
harperi 74, 86, 95
traskii 01
Eppioides 212
bicolor. ......... 214
malaya 213
Eremarionta. 75. 86-88, 05
Erimyzon sucetta oblongus ..... 3,7
 I'sox americanns . ... .2. 3. 7
Etheostoma blennioides 24
cinereuni 26
longunanus 10
nigrum 10
olmstedi 10
podostemone 10
tessellata 25
Euanisous 262
teuthroides 262
Euconocephalus 237
gracilis 241
indicus 238
longiceps 241
nasutus 240
pallidas ;. 239
picteti 238
sobrinus 242
varius 238, 239
Euhexacentrus 270
annulicornis 271
Eulamia milberti 3, 5, 7
Eulophophyllum 160
thaumasianum 160
Eumecopoda 182
moluccarum 185
reducta 183
Euthynnus alleteratus 4
Eutrochatella 31, 58-63
acuminata columellaris 62
alboviridis 59
chrysochasma 59
c. chrysochasma 59
c. hernandezi 60
c. jucunda 60
chrysostoma 62
cisnerosi 60
elongata. . , 60
erythraea 59
fuscula 60
jugulata 59
mestre 59, 60
methfesseli 60
microdina 61
m. chrysis 61
pyramidalis 60
p. percarinata 60
p. pyramidalis 60
remota . . 62
rupestris 61, 64
scopulorum 60
simpsoni <>1
stellata 61
straminea festa 60
s. nodae 60
s. politula 60
s. rubromarginata 60
S. straminea 60
tankervillii 62
torrei . 61
NATIU'AL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA
309
trochulina 59
wrighti wrighti 60
\v. xanthacme 60
Excavata 62
Festiva 44, 53
Fumecopoda cyrtoscelis 184
Fundulus catenatus 14, 24
diaphanus 4
heteroclitus macrolepidotus . . 4, 8
majalis 4
notatus 23, 24
Furnia bakeri 146
Gadus callarias 7
Gambusia affinis 15, 22, 23
Gastrocopta pellucida hordeacella 97
Gemma 46
Geotrochatella 61, 64
Glaucochroite 105-108
Gobiesox strumosus 8
Gobiosoma bosc : 8
Gonyatopus gemmiculus 201
Gonyodiscus 88
Gryllacris annulicornis 280
arctata 276
fumigata 283
heros 279
macroxiphus 282
nigrita 278
punctipennis dempwolffi 280
p. gemmicula 279
signifera 279
vitrea 276
Hadropterus peltatus 10
Hapalophyllum 193
vrazi 194
Helicina 33, 46, 48-53
adspersa 34, 52
amoena 48
candeana 49
caracolla 50
chrysocheila chrysocheila. ... 51
c. shuttleworthi 51
c. vanattae 52
cinctella bautistae 48
c. cinctella 48
delicatula delicatula 50
d. notata 50
d. sagulensis 50
durangoana durangoana 50
exigua 61
funcki costaricensis 51
f . funcki 51
f. parvidens 51
f. pitalensis 51
ghiesbreghti 48
nemoralis 49
neritella 33, 52, 53
n. diplocheila . . 52
orbiculata 34
punctisulcata punctisulcata. . 48
p. zunilensis 48
rhynchostoma ernesti 49, 50
rostrata 50
r. denticulata 51
r. mategalpensis 51
r. rostrata 51
sanctaemarthae 49
senachuensis 50
sowerbyana 48
tamsiana appuni 49
tenuis pittieri 50
t. tenuis 50
zephyrina 33, 50
z. deppeana 51
z. dientensis 51
z. zephyrina 51
Helicinidae 29-67
Helix carpenterivar. indioensis. .74, 86
damascenus 74
traskii 91
Helminthoglypta cuyamacensis . 97
c. lowei 97
tudiculata 96
Hendersonia. 31, 33, 41-44
baldwini 43
japonica 41, 42
laciniosa 43
occulta 34, 41, 42
rotelloidea 43
uberti 43
verecunda 43
Hexacentrus mundus 269, 270
sellatus 269
spiniger 269
unicolor 269
Hippocampus hudsonius 6
Holochlora fusco-spinosa 158
javanica 159
maxima 158
mindanao 156
signata 157
venosa 156
Hybognathus nucbalis 9, 16, 22
Hyperhomala woodfordi 187
Hybopsis amblops 17, 18, 22, 24
dissimilis 24
kentuckiensis9, 11,13, 15, 16, 18,19
 rubrifrons 17, 18
Ictalurus punctatus 9, 92
ldesa 46
Keeleyite 101-104
Labidesthes sicculus 24
Lagodon rhcmboides 6
Leiostomus xanthurus 5, 6, 8
310
PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF
Lepisosteus osseus 22
Lepomis auritus . . 4, 8, 10, 11, 16, 17
incisor 20, 22
megalotis 20, 23, 24
Leptecheneis naucrates 6
Leptodera ornatipennis 139
Lesina ensifer 235
Letana brunneri 135
Leuciscus vandoisulus 9
Lindsleya 53
Liotrachela cryptisema 164
iliganae 165
minuta 165
Lipotactes 248, 267
maculatus 267
Lobotes surinamensis 6
Lophius piscatorius 7
Lophopsetta maculata 6
Lucidella 53-55. 58
aureola 34, 54, 55
lirata 54, 55
pilsbryi 54
venezuelensis 54
Macrolyristes imperator 186
Macroxiphus megapterus 227
vaginatus 227
Mataeus 189
Mecopoda elongata 182
Megalops atlanticus 3, 4
Menidia menidia notata 4
Menticirrhus saxatilis 3, 5, 6, 8
Merluccius bilinearus 7
Mesogonitius chaetodon 3, 4
Metcalfeia 54
Micrarionta 74, 75, 85-88
aquae-albae 87
desertorum 86
harperi 94, 96
hutsoni 86
indioensis 93
orcutti 95, 96
rixfordi 86, 93
wolcottiana 82, 89, 91
Microgadus tomcod 7
Micropogon undulatus 3, 5, 6, 8
Microprion 188
Micropterus dolomieu 10, 24
salmoides 8, 22
Miluna 41
Minytrema melanops 17, 18, 22
Mirollia aeta 130
carinata 130
cerciata 131
Mola inola 5
Morone americana 6-8
Morsimus 188, 203
albomarginatus 206
serraticollis 208
Mossula kiriwina 174
Moxostoma aureolum 22, 24
Mugil curema 4, 6
Mustelis canis 3, 5
Myoxocephalus octodecimspinosus 6
Neoconocephalus 238
Nicsara bifasciata 221
bimaculata 225
philippina 223
taylori 222
thoracica 225
Notropis ariommus 12
boops 12
bif renatus 3
brimleyi 13
callistius 21
cerasinus 9, 11, 12
chalybaeus 3
chrosomus 21
coccogenis 12, 13, 22, 24
cornutus 21
hudsonius 9
h. amarus 8
h. saludanus 14
lutipinnis 15, 16
niveus 14, 16
photogenis amoenus. . . .9, 11, 13
procne 11, 12
rubrocroceus 17-19
scepticus 14
spectrunculus 13
stigmatarius 20
telescopus 24
umbratilis. 22-24
u. fasciolaris 22
whipplii 16, 24
w. analostanus 11, 12
Olcinia erosifolia 211
Oligyra 31, 43-47
arenicola 45
a. raresulcata 45
a. succincta 45
beatrix beatrix 45
b. confusa 45
b. nicaraguae 45
borealis 44
cacguelita 45, 46
convexa 44
cordillerae 44
dysoni bocourti 47
d. diaphana 47
flavida brevilabris 45
f. flavida 45
f . strcbeli 45
fragilis data 45
f . fragilis 45
f . merdigera 45
gemma 45, 47
311
oaxacana 45
orbiculata 34, 42
o. clappi 44
o. orbiculata 44
o. tropica 44
oweniana coccinostoma . . . .45, 46
o. oweniana 45
palliata 47
riparia 47
rotunda 47
sanguinea 47
Onomarchis leuconotus 193
Opisthonema oglinum 6
Opsanus tau 7, 8
Opsopoedus emiliae 23
Orobophana 43
Orthopristis chrysopterus . . 5, 6
Oxylakis punctipennis 217
Oxyrhornbus 44, 48
Oxyscelus 188
Oxystethus brevipennis 217
dyaka 215
intermedius. 216
Pachysaga 273
Pachysagella 273
maculata 274
Palinurichthys perciformis 6
Paludestrina longinqua 99
Papuogryllacris obiensis 285
Paracaedicia serrata 170
Paradiaphlebus notatus 175
Paragryllacris griffinii 284
Paralichthys dentatus 3-6
Perca flavescens 2, 7, 8
Percina caprodes 23
Phaneroptera 150, 171
Phanerotus 189
Phaula 150
galeata 149
luzonica 147
phaneropteroides 147, 148
rugulosa 146
Phisis acutipennis 266
obiensis ' 264
pectinata 266
philippinarum 265
Phlugis thaumasia 263
Phycis chuss 7
regius 5, 7
Phygela haani 140
Phyllomimus 188, 196
ampullaceus 198
bakeri 196
detersus 196
inquinatus 199
tonkinae 198
Phyllophora lanceolata 188
Phyllotribonia 189
Phyllozelus abbotti 200
Physa sp 99
Pimephales notatus 22, 23
Platycaedicia 167
obiensis 168
Poecilichthys coeruleus 23
flabellaris 11, 12, 14
inscriptus 19
maculatus 23, 25
squamiceps 26
Poenia 54
Pogonias cromis 4-6
Polichne parvicauda 171
Pollachius virens 7
Polyodon spathula 21
Pomacanthus arcuatus 6
Pomatomus saltatrix 3, 4, 6
Pomolobus aestivalis 6
pseudoharengus 5
Pomo tis gibbosus 2, 4, 6, 8
Potamocottus zopherus 21
Poronotus triacanthus 6
Prionotus carolinus \ 6
evolans strigatus .... 6
Priotrochatella 61, 63, 64
Prohimerta 133
annamensis 134
Promeca quadripunctata 195
unicolor 195
Pseudophyllus harrisoni 189
Pseudopleuronectes americanus . . 7
 Pseudopsyra 154
mirabilis 155
Pseudotrochatella 64, 65
Psyra brunneri 1 54
melanonota 154
Pyrgocorypha philippina ........ 236
Pyrgodomus 60
Raja eglanteria 3, 6
erinacea 4, 7
Rezbanyite 102
Rhaphidophora baeri 287
deusta 287
gracilis 286
Rhinichthys atronasus 3, 9, 14
Rhinoptera bonasus 6
Rhytidogyne griffinii 225
Roccus lineatus 5, 6
Salomona 228
conspersa 231
coriacea 230
guamensis 232
lita 233
lobaspoides 235
maculifrons 231
nigripes 229
ornata 234
Sanaa 189
imperialis 211
312
Sarda sarda 4
Sasima truncata 188
Sathrophvllia marmorata 210
torrida 210
Scambophyllum albomarginatum. 136
sandakanae 137
sanguineoleiitum 137
Schasicheila 53, 55-57
alata 56
ciliata 50
fragilis 56
hidalgoana 57
hinkleyi 57
minima 57
miriuscula 57
nicoleti 57
palmeri 57
pannucea 57
p. misantlensis 57
pilsbryi 57
sagraiana 56
srlacea 56
vanattai 57
v. tricostata 57
xanthia 57
Schilbeodes insignis 16
Sciaenops ocellatus 5, 6
Scomber scombrus 3
Scudderia 150, 171
Segestes frater 177
punctipes 177
vittaticeps 176
Segestidea soror 178
Semotilus atromaculatus . .9, 16, 18-20
bullaris 9
Seriola zonata 4, 6
Sexava coriacea 180
Sonorella 86
argus 86
baileyi 86
b. orcutti 74, 86
walcottiana 74, 86
Sphaeroconia 43
Spheroides maculatus 6
Sphyrna zygaena 3-7
Squalus acanthias 3, 5
Squatina dumeril 3, 6
Stenotomus chrysops 3, 5, 6
Stephanolepis liispidus 6
Stictophaula 150
bakeri 150
micra 153
quadridens 152
Stizeodion canadense 22
Stoastoma 33, 54, 57-59
domingensis 54
haitianum 54
portorieensis 54
St rongylura marina 4, 6
Snbglobulosa 44, 53
Snccincta 44, 45, 52, 98
Sympaestria lampra 161
Syngnathus fuscus 4, 6
Tamsiana 46, 49, 53
Tapiena cerciata 140
Tautoga onitis 3, 5, 6
Tautogolabrus adspersus 6
Tegra 189
Temnophyllus speciosus 194
Tenuis 50, 52
Teratura : 248, 249
monstrosa 246
Termera 189
Terpandrus splendidus 272
Thunnus thynnus 4
Togona philippina 205
Torpedo nobiliana 3
Trachinotus carolinus 4, 6
Trichiurus lepturus 6
Tristramia. 48, 50, 53
Trochatella 33, 63
Troschvelviana 59, 60
Tympanoptera 198
grioleti 204
Typhoptera 189
staudingeri 211
Ulocentra simotera 23, 24
Umbra pygmaea 4
Ustronia 62, 63
Viana. 58, 63, 64
regina 63, 64
r. subunguiculata 63
Vomer setapinnis 6
Waldemaria 41
Wavcllite 113-119
"Willemite 108-110
Xerarionta 87
Xestrophrys javanicus 236
Xiphidion 248
Xiphidiopsis 248, 253
aglaia 261
cryptosticta 256
dicera 254
drepanophora 257
gemmicula 259
Zabalius 189
Zonitoides minuscula 97
NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA
313
GENERAL INDEX
Baker, H. Burrington. Notes on the
 Radula of the Helicinidae, 29.
Berry, S. Stillman. Notes on the
 Mollusks of the Colorado Desert, I,
 69.
Cadwalader, John. Resolution of Ap-
 preciation, 306.
Committees, 305.
Cooke, C. Montague. Palmyra Is-
 land, a Pacific Coral Atoll, 302 (No
 abstract).
Deaths announced, 301-304.
Fowler, Henry W. Records of Fishes
 for the Southern and Eastern United
 States; Fishes of the Southern
 Alleghanies, 301 (No abstracts).
Gordon, Samuel G. Keeleyite, a New
 Lead Sulfantimonite from Oruro,
 Bolivia. 101; Crystallographic Notes
 on Glaucochroite, Willemite, Cel-
 estite, and Calcite, from Franklin,
New Jersey, 105; Crystallographic
 Notes on Wavellite from Bolivia,
 Pennsylvania, Arkansas, and Bo-
 hemia, 113; A Mineralogist in the
 Andes, 302 (No abstract).
Hayden Memorial Geological Award,
 Report of Committee on, 305.
Hebard, Morgan. Studies in Ma-
 layan, Melanesian, and Australian
 Tettigoniidae (Orthoptera), 121.
Huber, Wharton. The Academy Ni-
 caraguan Expedition of 1922, 304
 (No abstract).
Lacroix, Alfred. Recipient of Hayden
 Memorial Geological Award, 305.
Members elected, 301-304.
Minutes of the Proceedings, Abstracts
 of the, 301.
Officers, Councillors, and Committee
 on Accounts, 305.
PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1922.
PLATE I.
Q
 (S
 <
'r-
 CO
 w
 J
 o
CO
 P
s
en
 K
u
Ph
55
 55
 <1
<
p
1-5
a.
X
 Z
 <)
<<
=
FOWLER: RECORDS OF FISHES
PLATE II.
 >
 fc
fc
->-
-5
to
>-H
Oh
On
 5?
 PS
5
cq
 <!
 Q
OS
Ch
PLATE III.
5 ^>
IS
^>^
^Q<' ,
BAKER: RADULA OF HELICINIDAE
PLATE IV.
10
BAKER: RADULA OF HELIOINIDAE.
PLATE V
BAKER: RADULA OF HELICINIDAE.
PLATE VI
BAKER: RADULA OF HEL.ICTNIDAE.
PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCJ. PHILA. 1922.
PLATE VII.
PLATE VIII.
BERRY: MOLLUSKS OF THE COLORADO DESERT, I.
PLATE IX,
PLATE X.
PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI PH1LA. 1922.
PLATE XI.
HEBARD: MALAYAN, MELANESIAN AND AUSTRALIAN TETTIGONIIDAE.
PROC. ACAD- NAT. SCI PH1LA. 1922.
PLATE XII
^1%.
^'-"--^L-t*
CU; C '
HEBARD: MALAYAN, MELANESIAN AND AUSTRALIAN TETTIGONIIDAE-
PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI PH1LA. 1922
PLATE XIII
HEBARD: MALAYAN, MELANESIAN AND AUSTRALIAN TETTIGONIIDAE
PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1922
PLATE XIV
PLATE XV
Jlllfabl^
T-hAi-'j''"-' ! - 1 :
11
PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1922.
PLATE XVI.
HEBARD- MALAYAN, MELANESIAN AND AUSTRALIAN TETTIGONIIDAE.
PLATE XVII.
13
16
17
8
PLATE XVIII.
lO
PLATE XIX.
PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA 1922
PLATE XX.
PLATE XXI.
PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI PHI LA. 1922
PLATE XXII.
THE ACADEMY HAS FOR SALE THE FOLLOWING REPRINTS
 FROM THE PROCEEDINGS
Postpaid at Affixed Prices
Fowler, Henry W. Records of Fishes for the Southern and Eastern United
 States. 27 pp., 2 pis. 1922 $0.50
Baker, H. B. Notes on the Radula of the Helicinidae. 39 pp., 5 pis. 1922. . 0.75
Berry, S. S. Notes on the Mollusks of the Colorado Desert,  I. 32 pp., 3
 pis. 1922 0.75
Gordon, S. G. Keeleyite, a New Lead Sulfantimonite from Oruro, Bolivia.
 Crystallographic Notes on Glaucochroite Willemite , Celestite and
 Calcite, from Franklin, New Jersey. Crystallographic Notes on
 Wavellite from Bolivia, Pennsylvania, Arkansas, and Bohemia. 19 pp.
 1922 0.40
Hebard, M. Studies in Malayan, Melanesian and Australian Tettigoniidae (Or-
 thoptera). 178 pp., 12 pis. 1922 '. 2.75
PUBLICATIONS OF
Sixteen volumes of the New Series of the Journal (Quarto) have been issued  1847 to 1918.
 The price per volume of four parts is S10. or $3 per part to subscribers, and to others $12.50 per
 volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains ''The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and
 Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." By Joseph Leidy,
 M.D., LL.D. Illustrated with thirty plates.
Volume XV, New Series, has been published complete, in commemoration of the Centenary
 of the Academy, on specially prepared paper, 756 pages and 59 plates, 6 of which are colored.
The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, may be obtained
 with complete sets only, except certain volumes of surplus.
The First Series of the Proceedings of the Academy, octavo, 1841 to 1856, of which eight
 volumes were completed December 31, 1856, may be obtained with complete sets only.
The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which fourteen
 volumes were completed December 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 per
 volume separately, and to the public $.5.75 per volume.
The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871 (of which
 fifty-two volumes are now completed), is published at 55 per annum to subscribers, payable
 in advance; single volumes S6.25.
An Index to the Scientific Contents of the Journal and Proceedings of the Academy
 1817-1010. 1433 pages, octavo, carriage prepaid, J3.50.
American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 pages
 illustrated by 150 plates, many of thein colored, besides about 1000 wood engravings. Published
 at $70. Price reduced to $40 for the set. Separate volumes of surplus (Vols. IV to VII only)
 $1 each.
The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed:
 Manual ok Conchology. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr.. continued by Henry A. Pilsbry. A com-
 plete, fully illustrated monograph ol recent mollusks. Series I, Cephalopoda, Scaphopoda,
Amphineura and Marine Gastropoda, n volume" (finished). Series II, Terrestrial Molluska,
26 volumes published. Plain edition, per part, $3, per volume, J12. Colored edition, per
part. $5; per volume, S20. Fine edition, heavy plate paper, plates in duplicate, colored and
India tinted, per part, $8; per volume, $32.
 Monograph of the Terrestrial Moi.lusca of the United States. With illustrations of il
the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Plain edition, $8.50.
 Monograph of the Fresh-Water U Mi valve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S.
Haldeman. 1840-44. Continuation to 1871, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Many colored plates.
Prices for the continuation: Fine edition, duplicate plates, $14; with colored plates, $8;
with plain plates, $6.
 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid.e (Melanians) of the United States. By Geo. W,
Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $1; paper, 50 cents.
 I.jst of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of the Memoirs and Dates
of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $1; paper, 50 cents.
 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth
$1; paper, 50 cents.
 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesoue. Edited by
Wm. G. Binney and Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. $1.
 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D. 4to. ,Vols. 1 to 13. With Index.
 Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Several hundred fine lithographic plates, $60. Same, Vols. 2 to
 13, inclusive, except Vol. 4 Each volume separately, $5.
 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL.D. Fourth edition. $5.
 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3.
Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. 82. Plate alone, 50 cents.
 Catalogue of Types of Cretaceous Invertebrate Fossils in the Collection of the Acad-
 emy. By C W. Johnson. Paper, 50 cents.
Notice to Booksellers  All the publications of the Academy will be supplied to book-
 sellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the pubiic.
Apply to William J. Fox, Editor, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Phila., Pa.
 January, 1923.
Fowler, Henry W. Records of Fishes for the Southern
and the Eastern United States 1
Baker, H. Burrington. Notes on the Raclula of the Heli-
cinidae 29
Berry. S, Stillman. Notes on the Mollusks of the Colorado
Desert, I , 69
Gordon, Samuel G. Keeleyite, a New Lead Sulfantimonite
from Oruro, Bolivia 101
 Celestite, and Calcite, from Franklin, New Jersey .... 105
 Pennsylvania, Arkansas, and Bohemia 113
Australian Tettigoniidae (Orthoptera) 121
MBL WHOI LIBRARY
UH IflSN N
